Japanese video game company Capcom has been in the news recently for all the wrong reasons. 
The company suffered a ransomware attack earlier this month, apparently at the hands of the Ragnar Locker gang, and has been having a hard time with the criminals since.
Rumours have suggested that the crooks opened the bidding with eight digits’ worth of blackmail, demanding  $11,000,000 in cryptocurrency in return for two things:
More precisely, if what we’ve seen is the actual ransom note from the Capcom attack, the crooks aren’t really promising anything.
The wording is more menacing that that, warning in stilted English that: “If No Deal made then all your data will be Published and/or Sold through an auction to third parties.”
Ransomware crooks, of course, can never prove that they really do delete the stolen files of victims who pay up; they can’t prove that they didn’t sell them on already; and they certainly aren’t going to be able to reassure any victims that the files they stole haven’t already been stolen from them in turn.
And in this case, the crooks aren’t even bothering to say they wont’t keep the files if they receive the blackmail money.
They’re just saying that they definitely will leak them if they don’t get paid.
Just because criminals can break into your network doesn’t mean they’re any good at securing their own network, or even that they feel they need to bother with security themselves as long as it’s only your files lying around on their servers to be stolen, and not their ill-gotten cryptocurrency.
Well, Capcom updated its breach notes today.
Along with some bad news, there are glimmers of good news that in our opinion reflect well on the company, even though – despite itself being the victim of a very serious crime – it is in the unenviable position of reporting itself to the data protection authorities in both the UK and Japan for a data breach.
The bad news is that, so far as Capcom can tell, the crooks made off with quite a lot of personal information from customers, staff (including ex-employees) and shareholders, as follows:
The company also made a rather open-ended admission that it lost “[s]ales data, business partner information, sales documents, development documents, etc.”
Additionally, it was forced to note that “the overall [amount] of potentially compromised data cannot specifically be ascertained due to issues including some logs having been lost as a result of the attack.”
To be fair to Capcom, it’s possible that the missing logs would show what didn’t happen and therefore that the true breach numbers are lower than listed above.
But the problem that every victim suffers after a breach is that it is also possible that the missing logs might have revealed yet more trouble, and therefore that things were even worse than was first thought. 
We don’t think that’s the case here, but anyone who has been breached and later realised that the attackers were inside the network for some time beforehand will remember the sinking feeling of wondering just how much of anything left behind after the attack could be trusted at all, including the logs that remained.
The good news is that, as far we know, Capcom hasn’t paid the crooks one brass satoshi. (That’s one hundred millionth of a Bitcoin, currently [2020-11-16T20:45:00Z] worth less than two-hundredths of a US cent.)
The crooks, it seems, have vented their anger at this by leaking Capcom data, as threatened…
…but the world seems to be taking this in good humour so far.
As you know, we’ve urged you before not to peek at, and definitely NOT TO SHARE, known-stolen data leaked by ransomware criminals, in order to show a bit of respect to companies that decide to take it on the chin and not to pay off their blackmailers.
But from the discussions we’ve seen on Reddit (take with a pinch of salt if you wish) amongst some of those who have claim to have peeked at the internal company data, which allegedly includes confidential release plans and source code, we’ve seen happy comments including:

Some good stuff in the [REDACTED] design doc. Planned June 2021 release for [REDACTED]. Very pretty graphics. Aiming for older audience while making it still accessible to elementary/middle school age.
Yeah I just read through that and it looks absolutely beautiful.
[REDACTED] in April with demo in March, can’t wait!
[REDACTED coming out] in October is very cool.

To keep this sort of disaster out of your network, consider the following:
