Remember HAFNIUM?
Of course you do – it was the name behind a foursome of Exchange bugs that got patched in an emergency update early in March 2021.
Even though there was just a week to go until March 2021’s Patch Tuesday, Microsoft decided to issue what have become known as the “Hafnium fixes” in a so-called out-of-band update.
The fixes closed four security holes that could be chained together to produce an attack that has now been dubbed ProxyLogon.
Using the ProxyLogin trick, a cybercriminal outside your network could sneakily install malware onto your server without needing to go through any sort of authentication process or password check first.
“Out of band” is a metaphor borrowed from radio and network signalling, where it refers to a separate communication channel reserved for special data or commands in order to improve reliability. Usually, out-of-band data and commands are used to avoid to the dual risks that [a] the commands or urgent data might get missed if mingled with regular transmission, and [b] innocent data in regular transmission might dangerously be misrecognised as a command that was never actually issued. When referring to software updates, “out of band” simply means a patch or fix that unexpectedly arrives outside any pre-announced update schedule. Usually, that means it’s both urgent and important because it fixes a zero-day hole: a bug that attackers are already exploiting.
As we explained in a recent Serious Security article on Naked Security, a crook who can upload a file into a Windows server directory where web data is stored doesn’t merely get a chance to pollute your web server with fake content, as bad as that would be on its own.
By uploading a web file that doesn’t just contain HTML but also includes what’s called a server-side script…
…crooks can create a booby-trap on your server that will execute that server-side script whenever they later visit the URL of the file they uploaded.
Using the ProxyLogon attack, crooks can turn the trick of uploading an arbitrary file into a remote code execution exploit, so they can come back whenever they want and run code they uploaded earlier.
Even worse, the crooks don’t need to upload a single, specific command to run later, as harmful as that would be on its own.
By uploading what’s known as a webshell – a remotely executable command script that is programmed to run arbitrary additional commands provided at runtime – the crooks can come back whenever they want to execute whatever they want. (Read the boldfaced part of that sentence out aloud!)
Webshells provide attackers with same sort of general-purpose power as a local Command Prompt or a PowerShell window, but without requiring them to work their way past any firewall rules or logon prompts.
Serious Security: Webshells explained in the aftermath of HAFNIUM attacks


Hafnium, as it happens, doesn’t refer to the attack described above, but merely to a specific gang of attackers who were using the ProxyLogon trick before Microsoft became aware of the bugs, and whose activities provoked the emergency patches.
Unfortunately, once news of the Hafnium attackers came out, interest in the exploits they had been using surged.
Ready-to-use attack code was soon made public, so that anyone could exploit the ProxyLogon hole, and a spate of “me-too” cyberattacks followed.
The original Hafnium gang seems to have been interested in stealing data, presumably for industrial espionage, but some of the follow-up attackers had different ideas, such as the BlackKingdom gang, who used ProxyLogon to spread their ransomware.