Are you part of the Maker scene?
If so, you probably have your very own 3D printer (or, depending on how keen you are, several 3D printers) stashed in your garage, shed, basement, attic or local makerspace.
Unlike an old-school 2D plotter than can move its printing mechanism side-to-side and top-to-bottom in order to skim across a horizontal surface, a 3D printer can move its print head vertically as well.
To print on a surface, a 2D plotter usually uses some sort of pen that releases ink as the print head moves in the (X,Y) plane.
A 3D printer, however, can be instructed to emit a stream of liquid filament from its print head as it moves in (X,Y,Z) space.
In hobbyist printers, this filament is usually a spool of fine polymer cord that’s melted by a heating element as it passes through the head, so that it emerges like gloopy plastic dental floss. 
If emitted close enough to a part of the output that’s already been printed, the melted floss gloms onto the existing plastic, hardens, and ultimately forms a complete model, like this (but a lot more slowly):
As you can imagine, there’s a lot that can go wrong when printing a model in this way, notably if the fine stream of molten gloop doesn’t emerge near an existing surface onto which it can stick and solidify.
If the model becomes poorly balanced and falls over; if the print head gets out of alignment; if the polymer is not quite hot enough to stick, or is too hot to harden in time; if there’s even a tiny mistake in any of the (X,Y,Z) co-ordinates in the print job; if an already-printed part of the model buckles out of shape or warps slightly; if the print nozzle suffers a temporary blockage…
…then you can end up with the print head spewing out a detached swirl of unattached plastic thread, like a giant toothpaste tube that’s been squeezed, and squeezed, and squeezed.
And once your 3D printer has got itself into the squeeze-and-squeeze-the-toothpaste-tube state, it will almost certainly keep on squishing out disconnected strands of plastic floss, with nothing to adhere to, until the filament runs out, the printer overheats, or you spot the problem and hit the [Cancel] button.
This produces what makerpeople refer to as a spaghetti monster, as this Reddit poster reveals in a plea for help entitled What makes spaghetti happen?, complete with a picture of one that got away: