Sophos Home protects every Mac and PC in your home 
Did you know you can join us for a live cybersecurity lecture every Friday?
Just keep an eye on the @NakedSecurity Twitter feed or check our Facebook page on Fridays to find out the time we’ll be on air – it’s usually somewhere between 18:00 and 19:00 UK time, which is late morning/early afternoon on the West/East coast of North America. 
 (Note that you don’t need a Facebook account to watch our live streams, but you will need to login if you want to ask questions or post comments.)
We also upload the videos to our YouTube channel – here’s our latest video on Wi-Fi security:

(Watch directly on YouTube if the video won’t play here.)
Thanks for watching… hope to see you online later this week!
Follow @NakedSecurity on Twitter for the latest computer security news.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Instagram for exclusive pics, gifs, vids and LOLs!
You need to stop using Facebook for your content. Most companies don’t allow access to it.
*Some* companies don’t allow access to Facebook. I think “most” is an exaggeration – so many companies have their own Facebook presence these days, and find it helps them to reach people with advice and commentary, that it would be hypocritical if they were also to block it!
Anyway, we publish the videos on Facebook (streamed live) *and* on YouTube (exactly as you see here). I have never met anyone who was unable to watch it on either of those places. 
Given that we have about quarter of a million followers on Facebook, and that lots of them find the content we post there very useful (and tell us so), I think it would be a bit churlish to cut them all off just because some workplaces block Facebook. We make our community-facing content so that our readers, listeners and viewers can share it readily with friends and family. Therefore we use social networks widely. I don’t really see a problem with that… especially when many of them watch and listen in their own time, on their own computers.
No TL;DR? 🙂
Please add points/chapters to Youtube videos, today it is a must feature.
Good day sir.
Well, the TL;DR is “Home Wi-Fi security tips” – that is exactly what the video is about. (We really want to you hear all the tips in sequence and therefore as a sort-of combined whole, which matches how the video was created, i.e. live and in one take. So, no “chapters”.) If you want to read the tips individually, the original article is linked to from YouTube.
That link is:
https://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/2020/11/30/home-wi-fi-security-tips-5-things-to-check/
Your YouTube Channel is great for common people wanting to improve his/her security. So much relies on WiFi these days but unfortunately people want convenience – not security – when shopping. I am more sophisticated than the typical consumer, but everyone I have send your YouTube links to enjoy and says it answers a lot of questions concerning security. Have a great 2021 – Darren Chaker
Thanks for your kind words! Glad you and your friends are finding the videos useful…
Comment * 
Name 
Email 
Website 
 



Δ