Sophos Home protects every Mac and PC in your home 
As two people for whom creating phishing emails constitutes legitimate employment (we are on the product team behind the Sophos Phish Threat phishing simulation service) we know we’re in the minority.
Like our not-so-lawful counterparts, we spend our days using social engineering techniques to trick people into opening malicious messages and clicking on links they ought to leave alone.
Understanding the attackers’ approach helps you spot a phishing email when it hits your inbox.
Having written and tracked the performance of hundreds of simulated phishing emails, we’d like to share our approach so you can raise the red flag quickly.
In general, there are four main steps phishers go through when creating convincing phishing emails, and understanding these steps helps you to spot and stop them.
Different people fall for different tricks, so the more information you have about your target the easier it is to craft a convincing phishing lure.
The audience may be broad, for example users of a particular bank or people who need to do a tax return, or it may be very specific – such as a particular role within an organization or even a specific individual.
Either way, we – like our adversaries – always have an audience in mind for each attack.
Attackers play on our emotions in order to get us to fall for their scams. Here are three emotional triggers that phishers commonly exploit to trap you – sometimes using them in combination to boost their chance of success:
Next up, we need to build the email. Like our criminal counterparts, we will often attempt to cloud your judgement by using one or more of the the emotional triggers we listed above to get you to perform a specific action without thinking about it first.
That action may be as simple as clicking a link or as complicated as initiating a wire transfer.
One clever trick to writing an effective phishing email is to make the action you wish the target to take inevitable, but not necessarily obvious.
For example, an attacker might send you an email that appears to contain clickable links to weight loss products. At the bottom of that same email, the attacker also includes a clickable “unsubscribe” link. Here’s the catch though: clicking on the “unsubscribe” link takes you the exact same place as clicking any other link in the email.
This way, the attacker presents you with the illusion of a choice while ensuring they get you to click the link they wanted, regardless of where in the email you do it.
Finally, the phishing email needs to be delivered to the targets. There are a variety of ways for an attacker to do this. They may simply create a new email account on a generic service like Gmail and send the message using that email address, or they could be a bit trickier about it.
Attackers sometimes purchase unregistered domain names that look similar to a legitimate domain, changing the spelling slightly in a way that isn’t obvious, such as writing c0mpany for company (letter O changed to digit zero) or vvebsite for website (two adjacent Vs used for a W).
They will then send the phishing email using this lookalike domain in the hope that users who are in a hurry won’t spot the subtle difference.
It’s also possible for attackers to compromise an email account that belongs to a legitimate source and use it to send a scam message. This is commonly referred to as Business Email Compromise (BEC), and means that even the email address of a co-worker could potentially be used by an attacker to phish you.
Even if a phishing email does reach your inbox, it still requires you to take some specific action – clicking a link or opening an attachment – befores it succeeds.
So, knowing what to look out for, and what to do if you see something suspicious, has a huge impact.
Here are some steps to help reduce your phishing risk. While they are mostly written with organizations in mind, many are also equally relevant in our personal lives:
Remember, the goal of phishing training is to make people more aware of potential threats, and more likely to report them.
Be supportive and understanding if you test someone and they do fall for your trick and do click through, and make it clear you are not trying to catch people out in order to get them into trouble.
Sophos Phish Threat, the product we work on, makes it easy for you to run simulated phishing programs, measure results, and target training where it’s needed. You can try it for free for 30 days.

Follow @NakedSecurity on Twitter for the latest computer security news.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Instagram for exclusive pics, gifs, vids and LOLs!
Sounds like fish to me
Thank you for another very informative article, and concerning a topic which is a daily threat.  While it’s frustrating that the best email anti-SPAM programmes don’t seem able to provide protection, it’s easy to understand why this task is so difficult.  
This highlights why your articles are so valuable to everyone, whether private or in business.  Awareness is at least the very first step in combating this plague.
Please keep up the great work.
Thanks for your kind words – we appreciate them!
Thanks for this article.  Good solid advice here.  
I would suggest one more bit of guidance: Make sure your employees are never discouraged by sending you potential phishing messages.  Only if they feel safe organizationally to send possible false positives will you catch the real positives.  So thank them for the alert even if it proves to be safe.
Yes. As we like to say in the Naked Security Podcast (by which I mean I have got away with using this saying a couple of times already :-), wen it comes to IT support for cybersecurity submissions from your users, you need to adopt the mindset that “there are no stupid questions, only stupid answers.”
Tested and proven in a nascent financial services firm. Great product!
Keep up the good work, Sophos.
Oh some of those are evil, I’ll pinch the lost puppy idea thank you very much.
In my own testing I found that the simpler the message the better, also appealing to peoples’ greed. So a plain text email from ‘IT’ to say they had an oversupply of monitors, go to this form to register your interest, first come first served.
I nailed a lot of people with that one.
But the puppy picture, that’s genius!
Then you’ll lovehave an interest in this article too, based on Phish Threat stats:
Phishing tricks – the Top Ten Treacheries of 2020
“Someone’s got a flat tyre in car park.” I don’t even have a car and haven’t for years (fixed gear cycling FTW) but *I’d* click that one :-)
i think you guys are awesome.   When u say that we should collect info about how many test emails were sent out and how many were opened or clicked-on and by whom, do you have some way to collect this from the baited email itself or are we just relying on our tricked employees to voluntarily divulge their gullibility? Also, can viewing the source info of an opened suspicious message provide empoyees (or any concerned party really) clues to its legitimacy? Thanks,
Tools like Sophos Phish Threat will keep track of the “who/what/when” for you, to ensure that you can give your counselling where it’s needed.
And yes, viewing the source of the email, if you know what to look for, often provides many clues to phishiness that might not be visible in the email itself. 
The headers, for example, reveal which servers the email passed through on the way, and where it originated, which is often good enough to tip you off that it’s a phony message. 
Sometimes, you will notice weirdnesses in the HTML of an email that are included to split up words and phrases to throw email scanners off the scent, but which are invisible when the text is viewed in your browser. Examples include extra letters that are formatted via HTML tags so they are white-on-white or too tiny to read when displayed, or long and rambling “pseudoliterary” quotations stuffed into parts of the message that don’t get shown on screen but that dilute the dodginess of the message when it passes through a mail server.
I would 100% click on that first example with the puppy. I should probably think before i click more often haha.
Oh, help me find my puppy please,
     He’s got me worried sick.
He’s such a fluffy little dog,
     Click here to see a pic.
Comment * 
Name 
Email 
Website 
 



Δ