Sophos Home protects every Mac and PC in your home 
Google announced a critical bug in Chrome last week – a bug that affected Edge as well. 
But the company kept details of the bug secret, presumably to avoid having thousands of crooks simultaneously figuring out, “Ah, so that’s where to look!”
All we were told was that it involved a zero-day exploit against a vulnerability caused by a Javascript bug…
…and that was so many jargon words in such a short statement that we thought, “Why not explain all that jargon in plain English?”

Watch directly on YouTube if the video won’t play here.Click the Settings cog to speed up playback or show subtitles.
Don’t forget that these talks are streamed weekly on our Facebook page, where you can catch us live every Friday. 
We’re normally on air some time between 18:00 and 19:00 in the UK (late morning/early afternoon in North America). 
Just keep an eye on the @NakedSecurity Twitter feed or check our Facebook page on Fridays to find out the time we’ll be live.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Twitter for the latest computer security news.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Instagram for exclusive pics, gifs, vids and LOLs!
Seems like this would be a particularly good topic to get a print version as well as the NSL presentation.  Not necessarily a transcript, for reasons you’ve laid out on numerous occasions, but a relatively brief, simple explanation of each of the terms.  Not only would it reach a somewhat wider audience, it would be in a format that could be saved or even printed out for future reference, and could be tagged with “jargon” and/or similar keywords to make it easily found in a search.  Give it a thought?
Yes. Maybe one answer would be to do a Jargonbuster video series but not as live talks? 
That way we could script them and thus not only keep them shorter but also have a script to use as the written version when finished ;-) I sometimes forget that Facebook and YouTube videos don’t have to be streamed live – you can record them in advance and even edit them!
Very interesting, as usual. I love your… podcasts? videos? whatever you want to call them.
We all pretty much knew this already, but it’s good to have it put in such simple and easily understandable terms.
It helps evangelize our not-so-tech-inclined friends.
Thanks, I appreciate your kind words. 
Being a source that helps others to pass on plain English advice, and thereby to get ever more people thinking about (rather than simply panicking about) cybersecurity…
…that is exactly what we want!
Comment * 
Name 
Email 
Website 
 



Δ