Sophos Home protects every Mac and PC in your home 
Can we regulate cyberspace? Is GDPR working? What about encryption? And how to protect healthcare at this critical time?
In this special episode of the Naked Security Podcast, we talk to an insightful cybersecurity expert with a storied history in the industry, John Noble CBE:
LISTEN NOW
Click-and-drag on the soundwaves below to skip to any point in the podcast.If no player appears, listen directly on Soundcloud.
John Noble was Director of Incident Management at the UK’s National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) until his retirement in 2018. During his 40 years of Government service, John specialised in operational delivery and strategic business change. For his work in creating effective partnerships in the run up to the London Olympics, he was made a Commander of the British Empire (CBE) in 2012.
John helped to establish the NCSC and led the response to nearly 800 significant cyberincidents. This work has given him unrivalled experience in dealing with and understanding the causes of cyberattacks.
John is currently a non-executive director at NHS Digital, where he chairs the Information Assurance and Cyber Security Committee. NHS Digital is the national information and technology partner to the health and social care system in England.
WHERE TO FIND THE PODCAST ONLINE
You can listen to us on Soundcloud, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts, Spotify, Stitcher, Overcast and anywhere that good podcasts are found.
Or just drop the URL of our RSS feed  into your favourite podcatcher software.
If you have any questions that you’d like us to answer on the podcast, you can contact us at tips@sophos.com, or simply leave us a comment below
Original music in the podcast by Edith Mudge (https://www.edithmudge.com)
Follow @NakedSecurity on Twitter for the latest computer security news.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Instagram for exclusive pics, gifs, vids and LOLs!
Wonder if John Noble’s comments on role of UK Information Commissioner’s Office still applies in the light of this comment from the sponsoring UK Govt Department?:

“[The next Information Commissioner] will be asked by the secretary of state to not just focus on privacy but to be really thinking about how they are helping to unlock the value of data again,”
(ref: Engineering & Technology (IET online magazine), “UK could reshape data protections to reduce ‘burdens’ on business”, E&T editorial staff, Published Thursday, March 11, 2021. https://eandt.theiet.org/content/articles/2021/03/uk-could-reshape-data-protections-to-reduce-burdens-on-business/ )
I don’t think I want “the value of [my] data” to be unlocked in the ways that this government are thinking – they have some very nasty “pro-business over the individual” and authoritarian tendencies.
It certainly sounds as though the government’s current thinking around the future for UK data protection laws involves a regulatory divergence from GDPR, and not in a stricter way. 
Comment * 
Name 
Email 
Website 
 



Δ