Sophos Home protects every Mac and PC in your home 
We all ought to know by now that passwords that are easy to guess will get guessed.
We recently reminded ourselves of that by guessing, by hand, 17 of the top 20 passwords in the Have I Been Pwned (HIBP) Pwned Passwords database in under two minutes.
We tried the 10 all-digit sequences 1, 12, 123 and so on up to 1234567890, and eight of them were in the top 20. 
Then we tried other obvious digit combos such as 000000, 111111 and 123123 (we started with six digits because that’s Apple’s current minimum length, and because we noted that 123456 came out well ahead of 12345 and 1234).
The others were equally easy: qwerty, password, abc123, password1, iloveyou and qwertyuiop, the last being a useful reminder that length alone counts for very little.
We did get the other three passwords later on after a bit more work.
One was the obvious pattern 1q2w3e4r5t – we originally gave up trying at 1q2w3e4r, but should clearly have thought to go further, given that two other 10-character keyboard patterns had already showed up in our list.
And we should have thought to try the Chinese zodiac, which would have revealed the 6-letter passwords monkey and dragon, which finished off the list at #19 and #20 respectively. (Thanks to the Naked Security readers who wrote in to tell us!)
As you can see above, these passwords didn’t just show up once each in the many public password dumps that were found and processed by HIBP, but literally millions of times, with 123456 at the top with more than 24 million appearances, and dragon at the bottom with 994,142.
So we need to choose better passwords, and while 99pass!!word45 is probably just about safe enough (but don’t use it – you can easily do better!), a really long-and-strong string such as yjCMth15S­U,atTWT? is the sort of password you ought to be aiming at.
If you’re wondering, that’s a mnemonic password that you can recall with the phrase “You just can’t make this stuff up, ain’t that the whole truth?”.
The problem is that some of us still seem to think that once we have memorised a truly long-and-strong password, we’ve basically solved the password problem.
Simply put, there’s still a school of thought that goes like this:
Until they do figure it out, of course.
As we explained earlier this week, cybercrooks often obtain passwords without needing to guess them or crack them algorithmically, for example:
Password re-use is why cybercriminals use a trick called credential stuffing to try to turn a hack that worked on one account into a hack that will work on another.
After all, if they know that one of your accounts was protected by yjCMth15S­U,atTWT?, it costs almost nothing in time or effort to see if any of your other accounts use the same password, or one that’s obviously related to it, giving the crooks a two-for-the-price-of-one attack.
(By “obviously related” we mean that if the crooks acquire a password list that shows your Facebook password was yjCMth15SU-FB, they’ll probably try yjCMth15SU-TW for Twitter and yjCMth15SU-GM for Gmail, because that sort of pattern is rather obvious.)
And, according to the US Department of Justice (DOJ), that’s how an alleged cybercriminal called Charles Onus, who was arrested earlier this year in San Francisco, is said to have made off with a tidy $800,000 in just a few months.
The suspect, claims the DOJ, simply tried the already-known passwords of thousands of users against their accounts on an online payroll service in New York.
We’re assuming it was possible to guess which potential victims were users of the payroll service simply by looking at their email addresses.
If the address matched (or perhaps the person’s social media profile gave away) the name of an employer that used the service…
…then it was a good bet that they’d have a payroll account with the same email address, and therefore also a worthwhile criminal experiment to see if they had the same password.
Onus, says the allegation, was able to login unlawfully to at least 5500 different accounts using this simple system – so simple that it doesn’t even really count as “hacking”.
He was then apparently able to change the bank account details of some users so that their next wage payment went into a debit card account that he himself controlled, and to skim off a whopping $800,000 between July 2017 and the start of 2018 or thereabouts.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Twitter for the latest computer security news.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Instagram for exclusive pics, gifs, vids and LOLs!
Loving the password manager, for the 30+ accounts I have for work, I don’t even care what they are anymore (crazy complex). I didn’t want to use one at first, but it is good.
There are still a couple accounts I don’t use it for, but then the fun comes in. I won’t be using this one, but it’s an okay example; Wifbwqsiswl’80  I bet the first to crack this will have lived in Ozzy land. :p
Until your password manager password is somehow compromised, and then you’re screwed.
That’s a great point.   This is where you’d need a truly un-hackable password.  I don’t know how quickly I could memorize something like huEX+IDszSSMcB­jMw/S9kA as the master password. I think, though, that I’ve seen a presentation by Graham Cluley on how to come up with a strong but mnemonic password for your password manager.
I love accounts where it’s possible to click on the phrase “Forgot password?” I then get a new one every time.
I’m always afraid I’ll get shut out after too many resets within a certain timeframe.  If no sites or services do such a thing, then I am in complete agreement (unless one’s email account gets hacked, but at that point I suppose the sh*t will hit the fan no matter what one does).
so you’re using your email password for everything then?
I believe Steve is reffering to how many people utilize the same email account address in contact information forms for multiple user accounts linked to service providers (e.g. online banks, stores, colleges, and other email accounts) which then is used for password resets and access recovery. Bad guy/gal takes control of the email account containing available accounts, goes to those sites, and starts clicking “Forgot Password”. That’s where account access notifications and 2-factor with an authenticator app comes in handy.
Is there a number of items in the password that makes it safer? Say 13 0r more characters? I have been using 13 characters in my passwords. Does this make me safer?
Length alone is not enough, as 1234567890 and qwertyuiop prove :-) I like to go for 14 or more, though that is an arbitary number. The more you mix things up, the better, so if choose randomly from upppercase letters you will have 26^13 possibilities (more than 2 million million million, or 2^61). Upper+lower+digits, assuming you choose randomly, gives 2^77 different choices.
I’m a fan of passphrases.  Can easily be over 20 chars and including a contraction and or some grammatical symbol increases the keyspace
I must say I’m not a great fan of yjCMth15SU-style passwords – too hard to type and too much brain power needed to convert the passphrase into initials, remembering which are upper case and which are elite-speak. I rather like concatenating 3 or 4 mostly made-up or mis-spelt words, e.g. PawloDudelyDukkoLad – not that hard to remember and the letter sequences are mainly typical of English and so fall under the hand. (I hate typing “management” – enough to give you RSI if you had to do it too often!)
But there’s another issue. A long strong password for your password manager is only the start. If you use full disk encryption you need a good password for that too, and you can’t use your password manager to record that. (Well, you can, but it’d be like posting the key to your moneybox through the coin slot for safe keeping!) And if you use encrypted cloud storage you need another good password for that too. And for your offline backup hard disk or your NAS. Or your bitcoin wallet. Or your GPG key. A password manager is very convenient for web passwords. Most of the others you can store in your password vault but there is a certain friction for non-web passwords that you need to balance against the risk of using a single strong master password for 2 or 3 purposes, no more than one of them accessible to an online attacker.
turn on MFA with passwordless authentication
Most web accounts you have these days will treat your password as one factor of 2FA and some sort of code/text message/authentication token as another. So passwords will be around for a good while yet. They are not that difficult to do well – and so many so-called “passwordless” alternatives (think fingerprints and faces) need passcodes as a backstop anyway.
This reminds me of the breach from a few years ago when a whole bunch of unsalted hashes was published. The compromised site allowed users to set their own reset questions and these were also published. Some people had chosen good strong passwords and careful questions. Sadly for them one person had used the same password and set the password as their reset question. 
So here was a case of choosing a good password fails if the site has poor design AND another random user screws up.
Probably the infamous Adobe breach of 2013 you are thinking off. All passwords encrypted with the same symmetric key in “codebook” mode. All password hints unencrypted. 153,000,000 accounts affected…
https://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/2013/11/20/serious-security-how-to-store-your-users-passwords-safely/
MFA is the only game in town these days, anything is just isn’t good enough. And that’s true MFA, not usr/pwd + pin code. I’m sick of having the same argument that a PIN doesn’t make it two factor
As far as I am concerned password would still be around for a very long time
Comment * 
Name 
Email 
Website 
 



Δ