Sophos Home protects every Mac and PC in your home 
[00’18”] Sign up free for our Security SOS Week 2021!
[02’54”] Overlooked security flaw leaves web code vulnerable.
[13’51”] A home alarm system that almost anyone can turn off.
[25’06”] Some fascinating Firefox bugs fixed.
[31’02”] Oh! No! When you grab your laptop… but it’s not yours.
With Paul Ducklin and Doug Aamoth.
Intro and outro music by Edith Mudge.
LISTEN NOW
Click-and-drag on the soundwaves below to skip to any point in the podcast. You can also listen directly on Soundcloud.
WHERE TO FIND THE PODCAST ONLINE
You can listen to us on Soundcloud, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts, Spotify, Stitcher, Overcast and anywhere that good podcasts are found.
Or just drop the URL of our RSS feed  into your favourite podcatcher software.
If you have any questions that you’d like us to answer on the podcast, you can contact us at tips@sophos.com, or simply leave us a comment below.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Twitter for the latest computer security news.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Instagram for exclusive pics, gifs, vids and LOLs!
It would be great if you could bump the volume up at least 3 notches/steps. I listen to a variety of podcasts (via Apple podcasts) and Naked Security is the only one that is super quiet and I have to crank the volume for – the worst part is when I finish Naked Security and go onto another I almost get blown out of the room.
The last one was a bit quieter than usual… but historically we’ve steered clear of MAKING OUR PODCASTS ARTIFICIALLY LOUD. Many podcasts do this by squeezing their audio through a compressor (that means dynamic range compression, not data compression!) that simply makes the quiet bits louder and the loud bits the same, like rock bands do in order to make “everything louder than everything else”, as Ian Gillan and Ritchie Blackmore of D. Purple famously requested.
So I hear you… but we’ve had numerous people thank us in the past for *not* running our audio throuh a compressor like everyone else, does, saying that they prefer the more natural speech quality that results and noting and that if they want to compress and level every track automatically, they’re happy to do so in their podcast player. Otherwise, as these fans or more natural sound point out, when everyone is as loud as everypone else, someone will start compressing and levelling even more strongly, until every podcast becomes a kind of square wave signal. 
We’ll do what we can, but you can only please some of the people some of the time, because (in a fair world :-) the other CRUNCHY SOUNDING PODCASTS could just as easily turn theirs *down*, especially now that podcast players can apply effects of their own in real time, including changing speed without pitch, or applying EQ to suit each listeners’ preferences.
Comment * 
Name 
Email 
Website 
 



Δ