Sophos Home protects every Mac and PC in your home 
[01’28”] Apple patches two zero-day bugs.
[09’25”] Microsoft patches one zero-day bug.
[15’49”] A security researcher finds a fast-food bug (non-insect sort).
[23’04”] Oh! No! A touchpad user turns right into left, and vice versa.
(See also: Big Office bug squashed for September 2021 Patch Tuesday.)
With Paul Ducklin and Doug Aamoth. Intro and outro music by Edith Mudge.
LISTEN NOW
Click-and-drag on the soundwaves below to skip to any point in the podcast. You can also listen directly on Soundcloud.
WHERE TO FIND THE PODCAST ONLINE
You can listen to us on Soundcloud, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts, Spotify, Stitcher, Overcast and anywhere that good podcasts are found.
Or just drop the URL of our RSS feed  into your favourite podcatcher software.
If you have any questions that you’d like us to answer on the podcast, you can contact us at tips@sophos.com, or simply leave us a comment below.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Twitter for the latest computer security news.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Instagram for exclusive pics, gifs, vids and LOLs!
Ladybugs are helpful bugs. We are offended that you used their image to illustrate your point about software bugs. Good day, sir!
In British and Commonwealth English they are known by what is IMO the much more delightful name of ladybirds. 
Anyway, who says they’re in the image as an illustration of software bugs? 
Early on, the podcast clearly mentions *real* flying bugs (moths, admittedly, not ladybirds), before switching to their metaphorical cousins.
The moth allusion refers to last week’s podcast, where Doug told the legendary computer science story of how a *real* bug caused a very early computer to crash, and how its dead body was duly extracted from the hardware where it had caused a short circuit, so it could literally be placed into the logbook. (Today it would be a mobile phone snapshot uploaded to a GitHub change log, but in the 1940s they had actual lobooks, so they used the actual bug as evidence.)
Comment * 
Name 
Email 
Website 
 



Δ