Sophos Home protects every Mac and PC in your home 
Do you know what you were doing 3736 days ago?
We do! (To be clear, lest that sound creepy, we know what we were doing, not what you were doing.)
Admittedly, we didn’t remember all on our own – we needed the inexorable memory of the internet to help us recall what happened on 22 October 2009.
That was the official release date of Windows 7, so we armed ourselves with a fresh-out-of-the-box copy (remember boxed software?) and tried a bunch of new viruses against it.
Simply put, we took the next 10 Windows malware samples that showed up for analysis at SophosLabs, checked that they ran on the previous versions of Windows and then threw them at the all-new Windows 7.
The good news is that three of the 10 samples didn’t work on Windows 7; the bad news is that seven did.
You can’t really blame Microsoft for that, as much as you might like to, given that everyone expected existing software to work “out of the box” with the new version, despite numerous security improvements.
That was a decade ago – 10 years and nearly 3 months, to be precise.
Today marks the other end of the Windows 7 story – the very end of the other end, in fact.
It’s the first Patch Tuesday of 2020 and once today’s Windows 7 updates are shipped…
…that’s that. 
“So long, and thanks for all the fish.”
There won’t be any more routine Windows 7 updates, as there haven’t been for Windows XP since Tuesday, 08 April 2014.
The problem is that “new” malware samples, together with new vulnerabilities and exploits, are likely to work on old Windows 7 systems in much the same way, back in 2009, that most “old” malware worked just fine on new Windows 7 systems.
Even if the crooks stop looking for new vulnerabilities in Windows 7 and focus only on Windows 10, there’s a fair chance that any bugs they find won’t be truly new, and will have been inherited in code that was originally written for older versions of Windows.
Bugs aren’t always found quickly, and may lie low for years without being spotted – even in open source software that anyone can download and inspect at their leisure.
Those latent bugs may eventually be discovered, “weaponised” (to use one of the security industry’s less appealing jargon terms) and exploited by crooks, to everyone’s unfortunate surprise.
The infamous Heartbleed flaw in OpenSSL was there for about two years before it became front-page news. In 2012, the Unix security utility sudo fixed a privilege escalation bug that had been introduced in 2007. OpenSSH patched a bug in 2018 that had sat undiscovered in the code since about 2000. 
Windows 10 is significantly more secure against exploitation by hackers than Windows 7 ever was, and retrofitting those new security features into Windows 7 is just not practicable.
For example, there are numerous “breaking changes” in Windows 10 that deliberately alter the way things worked in Windows 7 (or remove components entirely) because they’re no longer considered secure enough.
For that reason, going forwards by upgrading can be considered both a necessary and a desirable step.
At the same time, not going forwards will leave you more and more exposed to security holes – because any vulnerabilities that get uncovered will be publicly known, yet unpatched forever.
For better or for worse, the modern process of bug hunting and disclosure generally involves responsibly reporting flaws, ideally including a “proof of concept” that shows the vendor how the bug works in real life as a way of confirming its importance.
Then, once patches are out, it’s now considered not only reasonable but also important to publish a detailed exposé of the flaw and how to exploit it.
As crazy as that sounds, the idea is that we’re more likely to write secure software in future if we can readily learn from the mistakes of the past, on the grounds that those who cannot remember history are condemned to repeat it.
The downside of the full disclosure of exploits, however, is that those disclosures are sometimes “attack instructions in perpetuity” against systems whose owners haven’t patched, can’t patch, or won’t patch.
Depending on whom you ask, you’ll see figures suggesting that somewhere between 25% and 33% (that’s one-fourth to one-third) of desktop computers are still running Windows 7.
So, please… don’t delay – do it today!
Follow @NakedSecurity on Twitter for the latest computer security news.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Instagram for exclusive pics, gifs, vids and LOLs!
The funny thing is that just today i got a windows xp computer in my lab. I nearly fell off my chair when my client asked me to “keep it running for just another year”
There is a fourth option – Leave Microsoft and its expensive resource demanding environment which is so highly targetted by malware etc.
1) Get Virtual Box and instal a version of Linux in Virtual Box – so it runs “under Windows” and see whether the Linux equivalent  programmes (e.g. LibreOffice for MSOffice, Firefox for IE, etc.) meet your needs and whether for those that don’t, you can persuade the Windows program to run on Linux using Wine (Wine Is Not an Emulator!).
2) If all looks good, install a version of Linux on your machine and forget Windows (if still uncertain you can install Linux as a “dual boot” system so when you boot your system if allows you to choose Linux or Windows)
If interested and your machine is 64 bit try either the Ubuntu (see their home page – .com – for guidance on migration from W7) or LinuxMint version of Linux – choose a version with the MATE desktop (which is not that different to the Windows 7 interface in terms of start button, menus, taskbars etc). If your machine is 32bit you may want to check that your chosen combination of Linux Distribution and Desktop will continue to support 32bit for the foreseeable future. Under Virtual Box you can try different desktops or distributions whilst on Windows to find a combination that meets your needs either “out of the box” or after you have played with the configuration options.
Updating from one version of a distribution to the next is (given an internet connection) easy and painless (usually a few clicks) and security updates can in many cases be automated. Provided you do not have a must-have program that only runs on Windows (and can’t run under WINE), the right Linux Distribution/Desktop is less hassle than Windows!
In the corporate environment there are support and management options (eg. look at Canonical for Ubuntu support)
Sophos has security programs for Linux.
Indeed we do have software for Linux – in fact, Sophos Anti-Virus for Linux is free for home and work. I use Slackware Linux as my main OS (since the recent demise of my Mac’s keyboard and the arrival of a loaner laptop from IT, a loan that might be longer than they originally planned :-) and installing and setting up our Linux anti-virus took me about 2.5 minutes. (Downloaded it. Ran the installer. Read the PDF. Fiddled with a couple of settings, mainly where to send alerts and what message to tell myself if a virus showed up.)
There’s (usually) a link at the bottom of (almost) all our articles in the “Free Tools” section.
I understood that I will not need the use of extra Internet Security software, such as Symantec, or G-Data and so on, when using Windows 10. Is that true or do I still need this extra?
Windows does have a built-in anti-virus of sorts called Windows Defender. It’s basically on by default, *unless you install a recognised anti-virus from some other company*.
Obviously, I’d recommend that you do switch up to a third-party anti-virus – and I would recommend Sophos Home because [a] it’s ours and [b] it’s free. (There’s a paid version if you want a few more features or if you want to be able to support up to 9 other users as well as yourself, e.g. friends and family.)
There’s a link in the “Free Tools” section at the bottom of (almost) every article if you are interested…
Paul, I was just gifted a custom built HP Pavilion with a 9th generation I5 CPU, one terabyte hard drive with a new (to me at least) installed toy:  A built in 16gb Intel Optane Memory circuit board between the CPU, the ram memory sticks & the hard drive.
It should arrive in four days – I look forward to installing Sophos Security Software on it!
Sophos Anti-Virus for Linux is free for home and work!
(As the now very old joke goes, “In a world without gates, who needs windows?” Or is it the other way around?)
Paul, I think the newest form of that joke goes “In a country without walls, who needs tunnels?” (tongue planted firmly in cheek)
Good morning & adios my friend.
Paul, I have Sophos Anti-Virus on my Linux machines. On my laptop it often gives a dialog box with the message “Error scanning files … Access to the files has been denied”
I’m not really the right guy to ask… we’re not equipped to offer support here on Naked Security. Your best bet is to visit community.sophos.com and look there…
Having said that, you might want to take a look at the latest log file, as well as doing /opt/sophos-av/bin/savconfig --all --advanced and checking settings such as:
DenyOnCorruptFile
DenyOnDetectionError
DenyOnOperatingSystemError
IIRC those settings control how aggressive the product is when it’s faced with a file it’s can’t deal with for various reasons. If you are getting the error due to operating system problems (e.g. bad disk sectors or damaged file system) then you probably need to investigate for other reasons anyway…
HtH.
Thanks
I’ve joined the community, will pursue this there 😀
Linux being flakey?
No, I think it’s doing it’s job. It won’t let the Sophos anti virus scan files owned by the root. I have to figure out how to give Sophos permission, or perhaps those files can’t be infected and therefore don’t need to be scanned.
Depends how you are scanning and what component is giving you the message, e.g. the on-access scanner (real-time) or the command-line scanner (the ‘sweep’ binary).
As mentioned, we don’t do product support on Naked Security so we won’t be able to get to the bottom of it here…
Paul, thanks for your blog and for replying to me, I will get to the bottom of it and I have confidence in Sophos, I’ve subscribed for  more than 6 years.
You’re welcome to contact me privately for unofficial support :-) There could be numerous causes, depending on Sophos version, kernel version, kernel interception method, flie extended attributes, and so on. Would be boring reading as comments on a Windows 7 article… plus they might get the wrong impression of how complicated a Linux system is to run, hahahahaha.
Linux will never be popular with the public because the geeks that work on it think that every user in the world should understand the permissions model and know how to use chmod 777 and su and sudo to fix problems by themselves.
@Larry, like many generalizations there’s more than a small grain of truth in the archetype: An awkward, bitter guy with messy hair, high-water pants, twelve pens in a pocket protector, and tape on his glasses. He piously mocks anyone who struggles to configure a firewall or can’t readily name all the layers of the OSI model.
However, in the spirit of Mark Twain’s musings, do remember there’s no fundamental difference between advice to apt-get something and a tip involving registry settings, at least not from a by-one’s-bootstraps perspective.  Just like switching from Windows to Mac or vice versa, there’s a learning curve to accomplishing the same task with any new tool.  And there are myriad quirks in Excel or Outlook prompting non-power users to throw their arms in exasperation, lamenting how simple this should just be, and why are nerds telling me it’s easy?!
Also many Linux advocates are often willing lend a helpful hand. Self-taught, they are happy to share what they’ve learned.
That said:
1)
 Linux has come a LONG way toward usability.  I recall (2000? 2001?) fighting a video driver for days, ultimately conceding that my 2nd screen was relegated to 800×600 and useful only as a “terminal holder.”  These days, I can install Linux Mint with XFCE in 20 minutes and get to work.  My monitoring station rotates four screens each hour to prevent screen burn from displaying the same graphs and console logs.  I still like Slackware and OpenBSD, but Mint installs so quickly and is a breeze to maintain, that it just makes sense.  The *only* things I want but can’t do on Linux are (a) ProTools music recording software (b) certain games.  A better reason for Linux never dominating is
[no games, so no players, so no developers, so no games]
2)
 (if you already know #2, it’s not clear from your comment–so I apologize–but I’m still posting for posterity)
The command chmod 777 opens write/delete permissions to everyone and is rarely what you really want.
In my non-scientific estimation, anyone advising it is 98% likely to be giving ignorant instruction, where something else is a better solution for whatever you need done.
The WordPress forums are rife with this terrible “777” solution, which gave me a bad opinion of WP itself for a long time–I conflated the actual code with ill-guided tips from “experienced” users.  Those same users just may appear in the forum and post I got hacked, OMG HELP!!!! a couple months later.
2b)
While it’s easy to scoff at those espousing the chmod 777 faux fix, it’s only because they themselves were taught incorrectly. But they’re not the only ones, e.g.
 Einstein failed math class
 gum spends seven years in my stomach
 bats are completely blind
 I use only 10% of my brain †
 ostriches bury their heads in sand
It’s everyone’s job to help dispel bad facts and help someone else get a little further ahead today.
† no matter what my Dad says
Windows 10 sucks IMHO basically Micro Soft in its entirety, support Linux or React OS.
The purpose of any computer OS is to help you accomplish specific tasks that need to be completed.  Each OS should be chose for the task at hand, and a blanket statement about any specific OS being better is unrealistic.
Yes please see my comment below to Larry.
Raffles, a rather pointless comment. Certainly not relevant to the article topic. I’m wondering how it even got through moderation.
Sorry I offended you Larry, maybe you work for Microsoft. I suspected something awry with Windows 10 when it first came out and so I blocked it from automatically installing on my device…..that was the first clue..automatically installing itself without my consent. I have a tablet which I use for inflight navigation with a program called Jeppesen Flitestar. It came with Windows 10 installed  and I inherited it, so I couldn’t roll back. Over time, due to the increasing bloatware, it became so slow that it put us in danger…I use it for navigation in an airliner. So if Microsoft thinks that they are so important that their bloatware is more important than human lives….well my next comment would be unprintable. In any event I have used Linux since 2012 and find it to be perfect in every way except that many developers follow the mainstream (sheeple) and therefore their software is not available for Linux.
Raffles, an elegant as well as a unassailable, rock solid & rational reply. I remember well the day I refused to ever again use the Edge browser for anything less than a life or death emergency.
You see, as a writer I always have a heavily choreographed bookmarks bar, and bookmarks themselves are as sacrosanct as life itself. In a way they evolve as if they have a life of their own, and among other things they are the “spices, sauces & gravies” of the literary masterpieces I try to create.
I begrudgingly gave Edge a try for a year, and then the ultimate disaster occured:  A bad MS update was loaded without my consent and it wiped out every single bookmark folder on my bookmarks bar, and every single bookmark.
In doing so MS (in my less than humble opinion) wiped out a year of my work.
One word!
Back up. (OK, the verb is two words, but you get my drift.)
Ha ha, right Paul! I realized that about the time I tried to create an adverb form of “assailable” – unfortunately spell check told me that “unassailably” was a no-no, and I don’t have Grammarly on this old W& ‘puter. I hadn’t yet fed the chickens so I just “rolled with it” lol.
I’d rather be unpatched and rely on firewall rules than install the bloated w10 – for “home” use. To many tunneling apps (back to MS) that I don’t want, that can’t be uninstalled.
For work, yeah we have the bloated w10, and I do hate it (very strong word for me)
Mahhn, firewalls will do nothing for you if a bad email slips through, or some family member gives you a poison USB key. I hear you say “bloated” but I’m typing this on a 2007 laptop with 4GB memory (3GB usable). With a Solid-State Drive it;s quite usable.
Larry, I am also a gamer on the side (to old to be a rail god these days sadly) and W10 just has to many built in apps that I don’t want and cant get rid of. Normal web surfing will never notice. But I need every kb of my bandwidth, every CPU cycle, or in the heat of a big battle lag kills. Cortina, Xbox, can’t be shut down on w10. Then there are all the other apps that have to be disabled like weather feed, MS store advertisement pushes. Its more like W10 computers belong to MS than the users. Kinda like Chrome, a data harvest tool for marketing.
Emails – I do text based webmail, and since I am the only person that uses my PC, there will never be anyone opening attachments or going to embedded links – I don’t even do online banking/bill pay. Just about the only way I can get hacked is if one of my driver updates gets poisoned, and then, I can do a full restore from backups. I clone my drive twice a year, and keep data on another drive. Recovery takes less than 20 min since it’s SSD to SSD. If I need to get on line faster, I have a cloned drive I can pop in, Live thumb drives. My image backups go back 10 years. I also have other special purpose systems for – firewall, scanning and formatting/wiping drives, guest PC to use if needed. I am not the average user – and not many people outside of InfoSec are so paranoid and tech savvy, so you are correct for the average user, but I’m an odd ball.
I think Larry works for Microsoft
Don’t you think four digs at me is enough, Raffles?
Since you asked, the answer is No, I have never worked for Microsoft. I am retired after 45 years with IBM. and my preferred OS is OS/2.
But I hope I never fly with you. Anyone who would trust his route guidance to a company stupid enough to create software  on an OS which was never designed for life-critical applications is not a safety-conscious individual. When I flew, I used VORs or occasionally RDFs that used no software. I am appalled that today’s pilots use consumer-grade GPS for aerial navigation.
Ever hear of MISRA-C? It is one of a couple of standards for software creation for safety-critical applications like self-driving cars. Microsoft probably does not adopt MISRA-C, but neither does Linux. Microsoft probably does have formal test and release procedures. Isn’t Linux created by a bunch of geeks in their basements?
…*spills coffee*   Lol @ Raffles!   Too be honest Raffles I think in today’s world people would likely come “out of the closet” faster as one of the peeps who identify as one of the 50-some-odd alternative genders than to have to identify as a Microsoft, Twitter or Facebook employee.
Mahhn, I hear you dude… For what it’s worth I don’t see how any of your comments rate a thumbs down, but methinks we must have a “Microsoft Justice Warrior” lurking somewhere on this thread, lol.
I’ll not only back you up on the W10 defects you mentioned, but also add a few of my own. MS to me hasn’t aged well at all – in fact I freely admit I no longer trust Microsoft. I see evidence that they hinder the use of any other browsers than Edge for instance, and I think it’s on purpose.
I sense MS has evolved to the point of arrogance with W10, as if they feel like the user’s rights & wishes are secondary to their corporate goals, similar to Facebook’s and Twitter’s CEOs.
@Mahhn, +1 for rail god; I used to marvel at those videos by own-age–OMG.  Prompted by a post a couple weeks ago, a buddy and I dusted off some q3.  Just last night I had him irked with my 53% rail (admittedly abnormally high, but I’ll not admit here that just fifteen minutes prior he’d won a different round, 20-4).  I expect other games have railgun as well, but I’ll always have a soft spot for q3.
And before I’m completely OT, I’m also with you on Windows and its shortcomings–and wish I was as disciplined as you are with it.
I did it on September 26, 2019, and have regretted downloading Windows 10 and Office 365. I know, I can hear it now…so don’t leave a nasty message. I haven’t spent hours fixing everything, I’ve spend at least a month in total, and 10 and Office 365 are still not working properly. Haven’t had the same answer to a question from support. Since I am one person working with my PC-PERSONAL COMPUTER, not for business, just for me, I thought purchasing the Windows 10 for one person, rather than for a business or gigantic organizations, might possibly be closer to Windows 7. Silly me, same platform, less cost per month, but still a pain in the rear. When I call Windows or Office support, I’m expected to know terminology that usually IT people use. I’ve worked with computers for decades, Windows, and I am at a loss as to why ONE person needs all of the options in Office (Outlook) 365, and why Microsoft has removed items that now make things more difficult and time-consuming, i.e. junk mail has be be the worst in the Office 365 suite. My printer stopped printing in color the day Windows 10 was downloaded. Contacted my printer company, spent a couple of hours on the phone with them changing drivers, etc. Finally, color, I could print in color; UNTIL the next day when I turned on my computer, no more color. And that seems to be the support from Microsoft. Fix it today, and tomorrow it won’t work, AGAIN! I would like to say this is an exaggeration, but it isn’t. Microsoft support for 10 and 365 by phone, by email has not made ONE BIT of difference. Everything they claim they have fixed today, isn’t working tomorrow. NO EXAGGERATION!
MY RECOMMENDATION: Since I’m fairly certain Microsoft isn’t ready for bankruptcy yet, BRING BACK Windows 7 with a support team. Okay Windows 10 is safer, but that’s useless to me if it doesn’t work properly and since Microsoft has learned so much about “the bad guys”, I’m fairly certain that information can be crossed-over to Windows 7. This would be for people like me who only need the functions of a Windows 7 and Outlook Live. No sense in telling me that I can still use Outlook Live, because I have been and Microsoft is gradually changing it to look and act just like Outlook 365. I cannot imagine what elderly people do with Windows 10. Find a class, you say. Uh…none to be found!
I was a late holdout with XP–didn’t upgrade until the last day of free upgrades to 10. It’s worked fine for me. In fact, Windows 10 and the apps (can’t call them programs anymore) are really about the same as those for XP, Vista, and 7. The only difference is the start menu. Once you understand the reason for that, it all makes sense and is easy to use.
At the time Windows 10 was being developed, Microsoft was developing phones and tablets. They wanted to have a common user interface across all three products. The phone was the hardest due to its small screen and pointerless touch interface. So the tiled applications menu for the phone won out and was implemented on the phone, tablets (Surface), and computers. Ten minutes of reading the help is all you need to customize it so it’s easier and faster than prior Windows versions.
The major problem has been with drivers. Microsoft really let the users down here. They don’t develop or test drivers. They send messages to the manufacturers and ask for drivers. But the manufacturers only provide updates for a year. For an older computer, someone at the manufacturer probably just selects some “universal” driver and sends it to Microsoft. This often ends badly.
1) For my Samsung CLP-315 printer, the default Microsoft driver pours on way too much toner. Print looks more than bold and colors are much intense. The solution is to find and download the Windows 8 driver and trick Windows 10 into installing it. Maybe 10-15 minutes of internet searching to find this one. (NOTE: never take drivers from third-party sources. Find a suggestion in a user forum as to what works–then get that driver from the manufacturer.)
2) IBM/Lenovo’s  classic Trackpoint middle button doesn’t work with the driver Windows 10 installs. You get the default Windows scroll. Another 10 minute search on the Lenovo forums led me to the right driver.
3) The Brother HL-2270 DW printer also needed a Windows 8 driver.
4) The driver for the Intel PRO WiFi was exactly one level down from the latest level. Installing the latest one made a performance difference. Had to get this directly from Intel. Microsoft didn’t have it.
But the most annoying part is when Microsoft decides to update you to a new “edition.” They wipe your drivers and install the same old, broken ones. I’ve learned to save a set of driver installs so it only takes about 15 minutes to fix everything that gets broken.
I see many businesses and even my own hospital still use Windows 7.
I see “fun” times coming ahead, sigh.
This comes at a time when many people are trying to pay their Christmas bills. Good timing Microsoft(tongue in mouth) It will cause many,many problems for many Windows 7 users. A brief delay or a continuous support would have been better.
To be fair, this is the end of *extended* support, as announced early last year… so this is not exactly unexpected. As with the end of XP we have all had quite literally years of notice.
Paul, on a similar subject (Sophos home products) I have a new HP Pavilion being custom built, and it’ll be here (across the pond) in a week. How and where would I address questions about the various Sophos home computer security solution products?
I think the best place to start is here:
https://support.home.sophos.com/hc/en-us
HtH.
I won’t touch micro soft with a 10′ bargepole. Linux all the way and workarounds for some software. Sincerely hoping the despots of Silicon Valley drown in their own monopoly.
Amusingly, Microsoft is from the Pacific Northwest – a proud exception to the “Silicon Valley” phenomenon.
True that 😉 my bad
I did an upgrade from windows 7 home to windows 10 home. Most of the things seem to work but only I never get to Internet access. Windows keep telling that I need to upgrade the driver of my Gigabit adapter. But I have the latest driver installed already when checking. But still no connection to internet access. What more can I do about this problem other than bying a new pc or laptop with windows 10 already installed?
Find a driver that works. The newest one isn’t always the best.
If I get the latest Intel driver my ethernet port stops working, but the second latest driver works fine. 🙂
Sometimes bugs arise in newer drivers that can make things worse.
Yes, sometimes you have to try a few. And this is IMPORTANT: when you find one that works, save a copy of the installation files where Windows won’t mess with them–in Documents for example. Then when Microsoft does a major update and installs the bad drivers again, you won’t have to hunt for them again.
Al, I helped a friend with that. There simply was no Windows 10 driver for the ethernet adapter he had. He had fiddled with it for hours (Device Manager Error 10, I think) and finally we simply went to the manufacturer’s website and got the news. An inexpensive USB ethernet adapter or a card for your PC will get you going.
Thanks much Larry. Idid the same as your friend and still no result. Now I will try what you did with a usb adapter. Hope that works. Thanks again for the idea.
L, Larry’s workaround makes sense – I had to use those dongles on my last 5 desktops. The average price of them was 5 bucks; they’re in good supply on the internet.I bought one from Walmart, shipped free.
My company was using Windows 7, even after the announcing Windows 10. At some point (I think in 2016 with version 1607), they offered free upgrade to Windows 10. Then I had the dilemma – to update or not to update?! I had 4 more years of updates for Windows 7, so why to bother…
Then i thought (1) eventually Windows 10 will become the new standard and I will have no choice but to start using it, (2) me and my colleagues will learn something new and will be already familiar with something that people have to face now (and i love the unexplored and unknown), (3) the update is for free and will save me lots of money.
They were moaning in the beginning but in less than a month all was settled and worked like a charm.
I think all is about habit and fear of unknown and new.
Another valuable article from Naked Security Team. So glad you exist.
Cheers,
Martin
Martin,
So what you’re saying is, if I had changed to Windows 10 in 2016 I would now know everything I need to know about Microsoft 10, is that correct?  Also, you mention, you and your colleagues will learn something new. It’s very helpful to have colleagues who can help one another with a new platform. Unfortunately, I don’t have that luxury. It’s just me, at home, using my PC, not for any business or any communication with others, except for email.
I’m sure that for the majority of those who are now using Windows 10, like small business and huge corporations, have IT personnel to assist in setting up all of the new bells and whistles. Lucky for them.
When I started this project, I called Microsoft Windows Helpline. I wanted to know if my current computer could handle Windows 10 since I’ve had it for years. My thought was to purchase a new tower with everything already installed, then transfer files, etc. from current computer to new computer from my external hard drive. They had jumped in, took a look at my computer’s inner workings and told me that it wasn’t necessary to purchase a new tower. So they downloaded Windows 10 and Office 365 to my current tower. Of course I waited too long; nothing was free. Keep in mind, I do not use the Touch screen, which is exactly  what I wanted.
Yes, most of us do have fear of the unknown and new; since I’ve used computers for a very long time I’ve been through DOS, Microsoft XS, VISTA, and all the rest.
Maybe if I had colleagues helping me, things wouldn’t be so difficult.
Even in cooperate environments people have lots of pain points. Where’s the scroll bar? I can’t fine Remote desktop. Why do we have to type it in? what’s the point of having a GUI if MS dev team can’t even put basic programs in the menu. Changing Programs to Apps, removing any built in option to play a video file? really MS. I’ll stop now.
Huh? Video files are played by an “app” (whatever happened to “programs”?) called “Movies & TV” by default in Windows 10.
Just google: windows 10 can’t play dvd
Very valid points Rhonda – I was blessed not to have had to learn DOS, I luckily bought the first computer that came with a mouse & drop down windows.
And guess what MS didn’t make the computer; they adopted the other company’s idea.
Reading all the comments about the struggles that some are having with Windows 10 reminds me of all the horror stories about Linux what, 10 – 15 years ago.
“Progress” is a funny thing!
Been on Linux for 2 years plus as my only OS on a moderate i5 HP Pavillion (and as a dual boot system for a few years before that). I have not had to “go under the hood” since abandoning MS – and that includes a major system upgrade (from Ubuntu 16.04 to 18.04).
Why the reluctance to ditch an OS that is giving so much trouble? FUD?
While I appreciate your recommendation, changing OS to Linux, it would be just as confusing as what I’m going through now. I have no idea what you are talking about, dual boot system? I am not an IT person. I just want to turn on my computer and have it work. Yesterday, was another new problem, I can only assume it had to do with the patch that Microsoft did. My HP printer, stopped printing in color right after the Windows 10 download. Then I spoke with HP and they fixed that for ONE DAY, the next day I was back to no color again. Two days ago, after MS Patch Tuesday, I cannot print anything at all, not one single thing! It doesn’t matter what it is. I can type a quick note to myself in Word then attempt to print that note, and it pops up the “save” screen, wants me to save as a document. I DON’T want to save this note, I just want to print it. IS that so hard? Apparently, it is. If I wanted to save everything I wanted to print, I would do it on my own!
And this business about drivers and Microsoft going back to original drivers, I know that’s what happened when HP fixed my color printer problem. AGAIN, I’m not an engineer, or IT person, just want my computer to work like it used to work when I had Windows 7.
Why does Microsoft insist on making things impossible to do for the  everyday person who just wants to send and receive a few emails, and print a couple things in color, or for that matter, PRINT anything.
I’m sorry Pingu, I’m not blaming you. I just can’t help myself whenever I’m given a suggestion about what to do. But, thanks for your information. I’m sure it is helpful for someone and it gave me another opportunity to vent my anger.
A 4th solution is to disconnect from the internet, isn’t it? My PC runs local computations for my shop. It doesn’t need internet connectivity.
Yes
Yes, staying offline is an extreme sort of firewall… you can think of it as a variant of the ‘keep it on a separate network’ mentioned above. You might need to go online from time to time for updates, backups and so on, but if it doesn’t need to be online then it makes perfect sense to run it offline.
It’s strange, I got an update on my Win 7 machine 2 days ago.
Comment * 
Name 
Email 
Website 
 



Δ