Sophos Home protects every Mac and PC in your home 
Thanks to the Sophos Security Team for their help with this article.
Sadly, cybercrooks love a crisis, because it gives them a believable reason to contact you with a phishing scam.
Here’s a tasteless and exploitative example, reported to us by the Sophos Security Team, of a current scam that uses the coronavirus as its lure:

The email, which carries the logo of the World Health Organization states:
Go through the attached document on safety measures regarding the spreading of corona virus.
Click on the button below to download
Symptoms common symptoms include fever,coughcshortness of breath and breathing difficulties.
Fortunately, at least for fluent speakers of English, the criminals have made numerous spelling and grammatical mistakes that act as warning signs that this is not what it seems.
The link you’re asked to click on is similarly, and fortunately, dubious.
Firstly, it seems to be a compromised music site with a weird name that doesn’t have any obvious connection to any well-known health organisation; secondly, it is an HTTP site, not an HTTPS site, which is sufficiently unusual these days to be suspicious in its own right.
Nevertheless, the scam page itself is incredibly simple – it can’t have taken the crooks more than a few minutes to put together – and visually effective.
The fake page consists of the official, current home page of the World Health Organisation (WHO) , with an unassuming popup form on top of it.
It doesn’t just look like the WHO’s page in the background, it is the WHO’s page, rendered in a frame that’s embedded in the fake site:

You can see why someone who’s nervous about the coronavirus issue, or who has friends and family in the main areas of infection, or who wants to do the right thing by learning more about preventing the spread of the disease…
…might fill in the form, perhaps because they are feeling pressurised by (or not thinking clearly because of) the subject matter.
Indeed, many companies have already sent emails to their staff to offer advice, so reading additional information that is allegedly from the WHO sounds like a sensible and responsible thing to do.
Of course, if you put in your email address or your password and click through, you’ll be submitting the filled-in web form to the crooks.
Worse still, you’ll be submitting it over an unencrypted connection.
So anyone else on the same network as you, for example in your hotel lobby or the coffee shop, could potentially capture your network traffic and see the username and password you just put in.
Once you’ve clicked the [Verify] button, the crooks simply redirect you to the real WHO site at who DOT int, which looks just like the previous page you were on, minus the popup form…

…with the rather obvious exception that the address bar now looks (and is) correct, displaying the genuine WHO website name, showing a padlock and – if you click through and view the web certificate – a certificate that shows up as issued to the WHO itself.
LISTEN NOW
Click-and-drag on the soundwaves below to skip to any point in the podcast. You can also listen directly on Soundcloud.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Twitter for the latest computer security news.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Instagram for exclusive pics, gifs, vids and LOLs!
Can you share more technical details: site, ip, sender info, email subject line
The subject line is what you see in the image. The From: includes the text “World Health Organization” (as shown).
We didn’t put the name or IP of the site linked to in the sample we saw (it’s likely to change or to be one of many, so it’s not a terribly good Indicator of Compromise…so unless giving away the URL is really important we generally avoid printing them so that no one will “take a look and see”).
When we write research articles we generally do include IoCs that other researchers might need in order to verify or build on our research; indeed, SophosLabs maintains public GitHub pages for that purpose.
For articles that are intended more as a public warning, we tend to obscure URLs, server IPs and so on, on the grounds that we can’t unsay them afterwards. HtH. 
Today, im receive a image telling that all product purchase via online are safe from covid19. Dear Paul Ducklin, do you have email or telegram account that I can forward the image and website link for that.
If you go to the sophos DOT com website and search for ‘submit a sample’ then we’ll explain where to send it, and how to package it up so we receive all relevant information.
You are welcome to add a comment to say “Please advise Duck at Naked Security when this arrives” (but you don’t need to and we will process it anyway).
HtH.
Comment * 
Name 
Email 
Website 
 



Δ