Sophos Home protects every Mac and PC in your home 
We did a double-take when we saw the tweet.
In hindsight, we’re not sure why, because the announcement was short, even for a tweet, and entirely unambiguous:
IT’S ANDROID. FOR THE IPHONE.
Introducing Project Sandcastle: Android for the iPhone. We’re excited to see what the developer community builds from this foundation. We’d particularly like to thank the team behind Checkra1n and PongoOS for their support and assistance.https://t.co/Kq1qszF8G2
And it really is as simple as that.
Actually, if we’re honest, it’s not quite that simple, as you can see if you look at the “what works” matrix on the Project Sandcastle website.
The “what works by model” matrix shortly after the project was announced.[Screenshot at 2020-03-05T18:30Z]The green continents and islands denote the components in each device that work properly, while the pink oceans are the bits that you can’t use.
In other words, the phone part of your phone – the row labelled Cellular – won’t work anywhere, so the one thing you won’t be turning your iPhone into is, to put not too fine a point on it, a phone.
Likewise, no audio, even on an iPod; no camera; no Bluetooth; and on some devices, no display.
But the really bad news is the CPU row, which has only three green squares, and tells you that the Sandcastle builds will only work on iPhone 7 devices (and the iPod 7G) for now.
If you happen to have a surplus-to-requirements iPhone 7 lying around, and you decide to give this Android thing a spin please let us know in the comments how you got along. (Some users are reporting serious overheating issues, so take care out there!)
Freeing up Apple iDevices to run alternative firmware builds has always divided the IT industry’s opinion – even if all you want to do is run an official iOS version configured in a non-standard way, for example with an SSH server running so you can log in on the command line from your laptop.
It’s known as jailbreaking, a loaded metaphor that different observers interpret in interestingly different ways.
To some, jailbreaking represents a righteous fight for digital freedom, assuming that you’re jailbreaking a device that you bought yourself with your own after-tax income.
To others, it’s evidence of a scofflaw attitude to digital society, typically carried out to get rid of lawfully implemented controls over intellectual property. (Meaning: people do it so they can pirate stuff.)
Indeed, Corellium, the company behind Project Sandcastle, has only two blog postings on its website, and they relate to legal action from Apple to do with “freeing up” iPhones.
But, as Corellium points out on the Sandcastle page:
Android for the iPhone has many exciting practical applications, from forensics research to dual-booting ephemeral devices to combatting e-waste. Our goal has always been to push mobile research forward, and we’re excited to see what the developer community builds from this foundation.
We’re particularly sympathetic to the idea of “combatting e-waste”, not least because the only way to keep using an iPhone after Apple stops supporting it if you don’t use a jailbreak is to run it indefinitely without any security updates.
In other words, if you prefer to repurpose rather than to recycle/replace old electronics (because we know you’d never dump old phones into landfill), then you’re on the horns of a dilemma.
Either you have to figure out your own security fixes and then jailbreak to apply them, running the risk of being called a scofflaw yourself.
Or you have to run the gauntlet of the scofflaw cybercriminals who already have access to a range of attacks that they know you won’t – can’t, in fact – have patched against.
For the record, we usually end any stories of this sort by advising against allowing jailbroken phones on your business network – indeed, our own Sophos Mobile product helps you to keep jailbroken and rooted devices at arm’s length if that’s what you want.
That’s for the uncomplicated reason that, for IT staff at work, “life’s already too short” without having to deal with mobile devices that are in an unknown and untested state. (In other words, while jailbreaking may allow you to improve security, it frequently, if inadvertently, does the opposite.)
In this case, we don’t think we need to add a “don’t try this at work” warning, given how limited the range and functionality of the current Sandcastle builds are.
If you do want to try it at home, however, you can indeed have Android on your iPhone, provided you don’t want to make any phone calls (although without audio you wouldn’t be able to hear them anyway), as long as you have an iPhone with a model number greater than 6 and smaller than 8.
As Corellium itself says:
Android for the iPhone is in beta and has only had limited testing. Any impact on battery, performance, or other components is unknown. Please use caution in installing and using this version.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Twitter for the latest computer security news.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Instagram for exclusive pics, gifs, vids and LOLs!
I cannot believe how much laughter this article brought me.  Being of the mindset that every Apple already has a worm in it, this only helped me find yet another reason to laugh at all those lemmings who wait for 48 hrs in the rain for Apples latest cash grab.
oh, you’re one of those….
Name 3 people that waited in line for 48 hours for an iphone.
I got $50 that says I know who you voted for for president.
My money would be on not President Baby Fingers. After all… he is friends with Tim Apple.
Why would you do this for old mediocre hardware when you could just buy an old mediocre android for $600 less?
Because it has tens of thousands of more apps.
Because its not going to slow your phone down for battery issues
Because it will take advantage of the hardware more, given that there is more software that will
Because IOS is extremely limited. Android offers an open ecosystem and exponentially more features, and potential features.
Thats why IOS lost so much and continues to lose in all spaces. Its just not a feasible purchase anymore. All Apple products are, aesthetics and hardware. But again that hardware is never really used.
stupid article, bro.
Errrrr, there’s no answer to that.
LMAO! Every porting project begins all in red, fanboi chumps!!! What idiots. This is great news. May actually turn the iPhone into a real phone!
I’d pay 2k for an iPhone running a fully working Android os.
Lot of morons on here apparently. I’m no fanboy of any specific ecosystem but have to admit Apple’s walled garden is a better solution than the wild west of google play for security. You can still root & sideload whatever you want on an iphone if you want to get squirrely and there’s a thriving ecosystem to pull from.
Android is a dumpster fire when it comes to security and you idiots are paying a company for the privilege of selling your data. Apple fought the FBI and NSA to protect their users’ data. Get your fool heads in check. The crappy VPNs and side-apps you think are somehow protecting you are just selling your traffic patterns too.
So you’re the guy who writes all those heartfelt sympathy cards for Hallmark.  I’d recognize your gentle, nurturing style anywhere bro.
Though you’re not wrong about Apple’s finger to the FBI–huge props to them for that.
He says he’s not a fanboy. Hahaha hahaha.
Seeing the phrase “too fine a point on it” makes it difficult (impossible?) for me to not recall TMBG’s Birdhouse in Your Soul.
There.  Just did it for you too.
:,)
Unpopular opinion of the day! Android is better than iPhone
Just thought I would put my two cents in. Iv been using iPhone for about 11 years now. I never had an android device actually. I went from a razor to an iPhone and have been jailbreaking since day one (thanks to an amazing developer community) (there all on twitter) my wife has only ever had galaxy android phones and finally I decided to get a Samsung s10 when I said ” check it out babe, I got tetherme on my xs max!” And she goes “I’ll get an apk that can do the same thing and it’ll take me 5 mins instead of the days it took you to jailbreak that thing” and then she did. Shout out to pdanet honestly. You brought me to the dark side. Anyways long story short I’ll never not own an iPhone (just to jailbreak) but my main device will be forever android.
Also the android sandcastle is hanging for me on the boot screen. It runs through its little verbose boot and says booting: booting android and then sits. It’s an iPhone 7 ios 10.3.5
Comment * 
Name 
Email 
Website 
 



Δ