Sophos Home protects every Mac and PC in your home 
Thanks to Michelle Farenci and the Sophos Security Team for their help with this article.
Cybercriminals really do know no limits.
Remember sextortion, where they say they’ll spam your friends and family with x-rated photos of you that they got via malware?
At least, they will unless you pay them $2000.
Well, the Sophos Security team just sent us a phish they received that shows the stakes just got a lot higher and way more offensive. 
Now, the price is $4000, and if you don’t pay…
…then they’re threatening to infect your family with coronavirus.
As crazy as that sounds, the crooks are making that threat because they want you to believe that they really do have deep, dark insights into everything you do, because they’re deep inside your computer and your digital life, and because they can track you and your family everywhere.
The weird look to the text below is because the crooks have used lookalike Greek characters in place of English letters such as A, N, O, T and V to disguise the words from simple text matching (see screenshot of email here):
As we’ve seen so often in sextortion emails, the “proof” that they really can see deep into your online life is a password that very likely is one you used to have…
…but they’ve extracted it from publicly available data leaked in an old data breach, so even though it might have been a secret once, it hasn’t been for years.
LISTEN NOW
Click-and-drag on the soundwaves below to skip to any point in the podcast. You can also listen directly on Soundcloud.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Twitter for the latest computer security news.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Instagram for exclusive pics, gifs, vids and LOLs!
I’d like to know who the hell comes up with this shit. Bunch of t***s.
Ayup got this the other day.  Laughed, Spamcop’ed it.
haha
I figured as much. I received 4 of them since March 8th. They’re up to $5000. now. They know what kind of car I drive, where I live and will infect my whole family!  Funny thing, they’re sending to an older email that I don’t check as often. I saw them all today.
The annoying part is knowing they’re likely making a killing even if only 0.05% of the people fall for this.
Comment * 
Name 
Email 
Website 
 



Δ