Sophos Home protects every Mac and PC in your home 
A free coronavirus vaccine from the World Health Organization (WHO), for only $4.95 to cover shipping costs?!?
Nah, we didn’t think so, either. On Sunday, the US Department of Justice (DOJ) announced that it shut down what it called a wire fraud scheme being carried out by the operators of a site in order to squeeze profit from the confusion and widespread fear surrounding COVID-19 – by promising to ship coronavirus vaccine kits that don’t actually exist.
Let us state the obvious, or, rather, quote the DOJ’s statement as it states the obvious:
There are currently no legitimate COVID-19 vaccines and the WHO is not distributing any such vaccine.
The site – now offline but available as an exhibit attached to the DOJ’s civil complaint – was offering consumers access to WHO vaccine kits in exchange for a shipping charge of $4.95, which consumers would pay by entering their credit card information on the website.
Per DOJ request, US District Judge Robert Pitman issued a temporary restraining order requiring that the registrar of the scam site – listed as NameCheap in its Whois Record – immediately take action to block public access to it.
The DOJ says that this is its first enforcement action taken against COVID-19 fraud. Dollars to donuts says it won’t be the last, given that we’ve seen plenty of cyberscum trying to make money off of people’s misery and uncertainty.
We’ve seen:
The DOJ says it’s still investigating the site, coronavirusmedicalkit.com. As of Sunday, investigators didn’t know who its operators are. The tech contact for the site is listed on the WhoIs registry as WhoIsGuard Protected, with an address in Panama and an IP address coming out of Lansing, Michigan, though who knows where its server is really hosted. It’s easy to obscure an IP address location through techniques such as using a virtual private network or Tor, for example.
The DOJ has the following slew of precautionary measures to take in order to keep from getting snared in any of the emerging COVID-19 scams. If they sound exactly like the general tips for staying safe online that we pass out all the time, that’s for a good reason: the crooks are always out there trying to scam us, and the pandemic is the most recent attention grabber that they’re hoping to use to exploit us, catching us when we’re feeling panicky and unsure of what to do.
Do what you normally do to stay safe online, in other words. Just beware that there’s a new angle the crooks are trying to leverage to get your attention, your financial details, your personally identifiable information (PII) and whatever else they can swipe. To say safe, make sure to take these steps:
For the most up-to-date information on COVID-19, visit the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and WHO websites.
The DOJ is urging people in the US to report suspected fraud schemes related to COVID-19 by calling the National Center for Disaster Fraud (NCDF) hotline (1-866-720-5721) or by emailing the NCDF at disaster@leo.gov.
In the UK, contact Action Fraud. Also, bear in mind that the UK has seen a motley collection of pandemic-related scams, including sales of hand sanitizer containing an ingredient banned for human use years ago. They were being sold for £5 a bottle, according to trading standards officers in Birmingham.
Stay safe, wash your hands for 20 seconds a pop, and good luck avoiding the crooks!
LISTEN NOW
Click-and-drag on the soundwaves below to skip to any point in the podcast. You can also listen directly on Soundcloud.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Twitter for the latest computer security news.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Instagram for exclusive pics, gifs, vids and LOLs!
In less frenetic times it would be easier to notice: a test kit would likely cost (even in bulk) significantly more than $4.95, so the ostensibly free kit with the stipulation of shipping would be unlikely, even in a legitimate hey-we’re-giving-these-out-for-free situation.  I’ll totally give someone benefit of doubt for falling for this in a moment of panic and desperation.
:,(
Rather than tracing IP addresses through various VPNs, hacked computers, etc., wouldn’t it be simpler for the Feds to just place an order (just before shutting the site down) with a throwaway credit card then find out who it was paid to?  In addition, both NameCheap and WhoisGuard per their policies will (actually must) honor valid subpoenas for all the information they have on the individual or company.
Comment * 
Name 
Email 
Website 
 



Δ