Sophos Home protects every Mac and PC in your home 
Since COVID-19 hit the headlines, we’ve covered a selection of coronavirus-related scams, phishing attacks and malware campaigns in which crooks have adapted existing sextortion emails, mobile malware and password stealing tricks to exploit people’s fear and uncertainty.
And measurements from SophosLabs show that the ones we’ve published as specific examples are just a few of many cyberscams that refer to corona or covid-19.
To help you stay on top of it all, SophosLabs plus our data science and threat response teams have created a “living article” where you can quickly access regularly updated information about the expanding “cybercorona” threat, including:
Remember that not every cybercriminal is jumping on the coronavirus scamming wagon – in fact, we’re willing to bet that there are crooks focusing on crimes such as stealing PayPal accounts and hitting you with fake technical support calls who are rubbing their hands in glee right now.
Their glee comes from the prospect of people getting so distracted by the much more visible and widely-reported pandemic scams that they no longer have enough time to be vigilant against all the other scams that have been joined by the new-look attacks. 
(The old-school scammers and the “new tricks” crooks are often the same people, of course, burning the cybercriminal candle at both ends, as it were.)
So the bad news is that you have to watch out for a plethora of new coronavirus cyberscams, as well as all the old stuff, too.
That’s where our “living report” article comes in handy, so you don’t have to spend ages hunting down the latest coronaclasms yourself!
Four quick tips:
LISTEN NOW
Click-and-drag on the soundwaves below to skip to any point in the podcast. You can also listen directly on Soundcloud.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Twitter for the latest computer security news.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Instagram for exclusive pics, gifs, vids and LOLs!
Thanks for the tips. Here are a series of text messages I received on my USA phone number and I immediately figured it is a scam
1 of 3
FRM:Verification’s on  #WF
SUBJ:Urgent Vferification of your account.X’9
MSG:#Verification:
(Con’t) 2 of 3
http COLON SLASH SLASH [REDACTED] : urgent Verification of your informations with us! Thank you . 
(Con’t) 3 of 3
[RANDOM-LOOKING ALPHABETIC LETTER STRING REDACTED](End)
“Wordo” error?
Shouldn’t your   >>> It’s not like cybercriminals to take advantage of a world event…  <<>> It’s not UNlike cybercriminals to take advantage of a world event…  <<<
Otherwise bravo – as always!!
It was meant to be read ironically…
…but just to be on the safe side, I removed that bit.
I’m seeing lots of panic about the house party app – do you have info?
https://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/2020/03/30/no-houseparty-hasnt-hacked-your-phone-and-stolen-your-bank-details/
HtH.
We’re seeing literally hundreds of hack attempts on every facet of WordPress each day. We don’t use the stuff, so it doesn’t bother me,  but anyone who does had better make sure his installation is patched up to date.
Comment * 
Name 
Email 
Website 
 



Δ