Sophos Home protects every Mac and PC in your home 
Are you here because you got an email saying that a hacker has a video of you watching porn? Did they threaten to share it with your friends and family unless you paid a ransom into an anonymous Bitcoin wallet?
If you did, you’re not alone – in the last two years almost everyone we speak to has seen one in their inbox. But there seems to have been a surge in interest since much of the western world entered lockdown to contain the coronavirus.
The good news – every word is a lie. It’s a scam.
The latest variant of the long-running grift to hit the Naked Security inbox had this subject line:
There isn’t. It hasn’t. No thanks.
The full text of the email read:
This email caught our eye as much for what it didn’t say as what it did. Typically, sextortion attempts of this type include a form of fake “proof” that might persuade the reader they’ve been hacked.
The earliest examples scared readers by including a password the scammer had cribbed from an old and exhausted data breach. Later waves of the campaign were sent from readers’ own email addresses (a trick that’s far easier than most people realise).
In this case the author didn’t offer up any such “proof” though. Instead, the scammer attempted to intimidate us with technical terms they hoped we’d heard of but didn’t understand. Like the detail about why our antivirus “did not detect malware” because, the hacker claimed, “My malware üses the dríver” and “Í üpdate íts sígnatüres”. (We assume the sprinkling of non-English characters is a trick to avoid spam filters, by the way.)
The language invokes the behaviour of malicious software like Robin Hood, which has been known to use a buggy driver, or Emotet, which is a frenetic self-updater. We’ve also heard of emails where the sender claims to have flashed the user’s router, perhaps invoking half-forgotten memories of 2018’s VPNFilter malware.
But talk is cheap and this is all just cut ‘n’ paste bluster.
What this email doesn’t do, what none of them ever do, is offer anything close to actual proof.
If the “hacker” had a video of you masturbating they wouldn’t need to send you long dead passwords, perform email slights of hand, bamboozle you with tales of their technical prowess or go into oddly specific details about the format of the split-screen video. They’d just show you the video.
So don’t worry, don’t pay and don’t reply.
You may also find this video useful:

LISTEN NOW
Click-and-drag on the soundwaves below to skip to any point in the podcast. You can also listen directly on Soundcloud.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Twitter for the latest computer security news.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Instagram for exclusive pics, gifs, vids and LOLs!
The fact that so many worry about this does make one wonder if viewing porn sites AND taking (in?)appropriate action whilst doing so is far more common than we think!
Unless we are all getting worried about “Deep fake” videos?
Yeah, I got one. About 3 days ago. Funniest thing about it is, that I have never visited a porn site. I’m not that lonely, and I have wild imagination. When you get one, don’t panic. Don’t click on anything. Just delete it. Complaining to their provider won’t to you any good, because complaints are not being taken seriously by any provider.
Agreed. Never looked at a porrn site. Glad I read this article
New twist!  Just got a text message to my cell phone with the same claim.
I just got one of these sent to my cellphone. Claims to have all my contact information including FB. One problem here tho, I have never had FB. Never. End of scam.
how do they get your long dead passwords?
From an old data breach where the stolen data was dumped publicly.
Comment * 
Name 
Email 
Website 
 



Δ