Sophos Home protects every Mac and PC in your home 
Google’s latest update to the Chrome browser fixes a varying number of bugs, depending on whether you’re on Android, Windows or Mac, and depending on whether you’re running the “stable channel” or the “extended stable channel“.
Don’t worry if you find the the plethora of Google blog posts confusing…
…we did too, so we’ve tried to come up with an all-in-one summary below.
The Stable channel is the very latest version, including all new browser features, currently numbered Chrome 103.
The Extended Stable channel identifies itself as Chrome 102, and doesn’t have the latest features but does have the latest security fixes.
Three CVE-numbered bugs are listed across the three bulletins listed above:
Additionally, Google has patched against a bunch of non-CVE-numbered bugs that are collectively labelled with Bug ID 1341569.
These patches provide a slew of proactive fixes based on “internal audits, fuzzing and other initiatives”, which very probably means that they weren’t previously known to anyone else, and therefore never were (and no longer can be) turned into zero-day holes, which is good news.
Linux users haven’t had a mention in this month’s bulletins yet, but it’s not clear whether that’s because none of these bugs apply to the Linux codebase, because the patches aren’t quite ready yet for Linux, or because the bugs aren’t considered important enough to get Linux-specific fixes.
To give you a very quick glossary of the important bug categories above:
Chrome will probably update itself, but we always recommend checking anyway.
On Windows and Mac, use More > Help > About Google Chrome > Update Google Chrome.
On Android, check that your Play Store apps are up-to-date.
After updating, you’re looking for version 102.0.5005.148 if you’re on the “extended stable” release; 103.0.5060.114 if you’re on the “stable” track; and 103.0.5060.71 on Android.
On Linux, we’re not sure what version number to look out for, but you might as well do the Help > About > Update security dance anyway, to ensure you’ve got the latest version available right now.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Twitter for the latest computer security news.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Instagram for exclusive pics, gifs, vids and LOLs!
I always wish these security issues with Chrome would mention if they only affected Chrome specifically or do they affect all Chromium based browsers? I realize Chrome has a commanding market share but most other browsers out there, use a form of Chrome as their base. Nobody ever says, this also affects Edge, Brave, Opera and other Chromium browsers??
I suppose Google’s approach, because Chrome is their own proprietary product, is that the other browser makers should speak for themselves. My assumption is, unless there is specific evidence to the contrary, that Edge etc. are vulnerable, although perhaps not exploitable with exactly the same sort of attack when there’s a zero-day involved. 
Comment * 
Name 
Email 
Website 
 



Δ