Sophos Home protects every Mac and PC in your home 
If the big story of this month looks set to be Uber’s data breach, where a hacker was allegedly able to roam widely through the ride-sharing company’s network…
..the big story from last month was the LastPass breach, in which an attacker apparently got access to just one part of the LastPass network, but was able to make off with the company’s proprietary source code.
Fortunately for Uber, their attacker seemed determined to make a big, quick PR splash by grabbing screenshots, spreading them liberally online, and taunting the company with shouty messages such as UBER HAS BEEN HACKED, right in its own Slack and bug bounty forums:
UBER HAS BEEN HACKED, boasts hacker – how to stop it happening to you


The attacker or attackers at LastPass, however, seem to have operated more stealthily, apparently tricking a LastPass developer into installing malware that the cybercriminals then used to hitch a ride into the company’s source code repository:
LastPass source code breach – do we still recommend password managers?


LastPass has now published an official follow-up report on the incident, based on what it has been able to figure out about the attack and the attackers in the aftermath of the intrusion.
We think that the LastPass article is worth reading even if you aren’t a LastPass user, because we think it’s a reminder that a good incident response report is as useful for what it admits you were unable to figure out as for what you were.
The boldface sentences below provide an outline of what LastPass is saying:
Cookie stealing: the new perimeter bypass


How to deal with dates and times without any timezone tantrums…


Serious Security: How to store your users’ passwords safely


We think it’s reasonable to say that our early assumptions were correct, and that although this is an embarrassing incident for LastPass, and might reveal trade secrets that the company considered part of its shareholder value…
…this hack can be thought of as LastPass’s own problem to deal with, because no customer passwords were reached, let alone cracked, in this attack:
S3 Ep98: The LastPass saga – should we stop using password managers? [Audio + Text]


This attack, and LastPass’s own incident report, are also a good reminder that “divide and conquer”, also known by the jargon term Zero Trust, is an important part of contemporary cyberdefence.
As Sophos expert Chester Wisniewski explains in his analysis of the recent Uber hack, there’s a lot more at stake if crooks who get access to some of your network can roam around wherever they like in the hope of getting access to all of it:
Click-and-drag on the soundwaves below to skip to any point. You can also listen directly on Soundcloud.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Twitter for the latest computer security news.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Instagram for exclusive pics, gifs, vids and LOLs!
I’m a computer user from the 286 era, aware that I know about security as well as I know the constituents in pencil lead, it’s soft or hard.
I bought into Dr Solomon in the early days and have never regretted it.
In the intervening years I’ve had two glitched, resolved by Sophos, and intend to stay on the path I’ve come to trust.
I do read the articles and act where I’m able but in all honesty that’s the best I can, or want to do.
Some of us are like many drivers, we know how to drive but not how the engine works, so we leave problems to the professionals.
I first learned about LastPass after Steve Gibson of Security Now podcast gave it high marks. Everything has flaws.You can divide systems into those that have been hacked and those that will be hacked. As Stuxnet showed us back in 2010, even an airgap can be compromised.
I am a retired network admin. Most.people have relatively modest password management need.  But in a professional environment, password management is a must. The company I worked for prior to my retirement had approx. 500 employees and somewhere north of 4,000 critical credentials – device logins, service logins, accounts with 3rd party vendors, and more. In such an environment, a password manger is not optional. We always tried to limit access to our various systems to those with a need to know. But it was not a perfect system. We were continuously in a cycle of discovering faults, evaluating them, deciding the best way to adress them. Some problems could be fixed with code changes; others might prompt policy changes. A lot of times both were needed. Occasionly new hardware was needed. We also worked with an outside firm to regularly test to be sure all well-known exploits were closed.
At the end of the day, what matters most is how a company like LastPass handles these breaches.  I used LastPass professionally for 20 years. Seeing the way they handled this, with thorough analysis, admitting what they dont know, then disclosing to the public a large percentage of what they discovered – all of this in no way diminishes my confidence in LastPass. To the contrary, it strengthens my confidence in LastPass. I wish more company handled breaches in the same way.  In many ways, LastPass sets the standard for how these breaches should be handled.
“The trick used to implant the malware couldn’t be determined.” ??? This seems someone from inside was involved just like most of successful attacks. 🙂
I don’t think it’s true that “most successful cyberattacks” involve insiders. (To be clear, I am treating phishing as an “outsider attack”, even though it requires an insider to make a blunder.)
And I don’t think there is any reason to assume that an attack they can’t be fully explained must, iPod facto, be down to an insider. 
Comment * 
Name 
Email 
Website 
 



Δ