Sophos Home protects every Mac and PC in your home 
The US Postal Service just issued a commemorative stamp to remember the service of some 11,000 women cryptologists during World War 2.
Like their Bletchley Park counterparts in the UK, these wartime heros didn’t finish the war with any sort of hero’s welcome back into civilian life.
Indeed, they got no public recognition at all for the amazing physical and intellectual effort they put into decrypting and decoding enemy intelligence.
Make no mistake, this work helped enormously towards the ultimate Allied victory over both the Nazis in Europe and the Imperial Japanese in the Pacific.
As the US Post Office puts it:
Sworn to secrecy under penalty of treason, the women cryptologists of World War II remained silent about their crucial and far-reaching contributions for decades. Today, they are widely considered STEM pioneers, especially because their wartime work coincided with the development of modern computer technology. Their contributions opened the door for women in the military and have helped shape intelligence and information security efforts for future generations.
You can just imagine the sort of conversations that many of these women must have had with their friends and families once peace broke out at the end of 1945:
Q. What did you do in the war, Mom?
A. Oh, y’know, a bit of this and that. 
Q. Like what, Mom?
A. Oh, clerical work, mainly. Just a desk job. 
Q. But what did you actually *do*, Mom?
A. Oh, adding, subtracting, writing notes, that sort of thing.
Q. Must have been pretty boring!
In fact, the pressure of being a cryptographer during World War 2 was enormous, given that stealing a march on the enemy figuratively, by decrypting their plans up front, was vital to stealing a march on them literally.
Battles could be won, or better yet avoided; bombing raids could be diverted or disrupted; unarmed merchant ships carrying vital supplies could be spared from decimation by submarines; and much, much more.
And although, strictly speaking, cryptology was a desk job, it wasn’t your usual 9-to-5 sort of work.
In the early 1940s, Mavis Batey, a woman cryptologist at Bletchley Park in England famously made a cryptographic breakthough in unscrambling a mysterious Engima cipher-machine message from Italy that said, simply, TODAY'S THE DAY MINUS THREE.
In memoriam – Mavis Batey MBE, codebreaker extraordinaire at Bletchley Park


Clearly, they were on to something big… but they still had to figure out what it was, and that left just three days to do it in:
[W]e worked for three days. It was all the nail-biting stuff of keeping up all night working. One kept thinking: ‘Well, would one be better at it if one had a little sleep or shall we just go on?’ — and it did take nearly all of three days. Then a very, very large message came in.
Batey’s US counterparts primarily faced a different set of challenges to the UK cryptologists, notably including the Japanese cipher machine known as PURPLE.
The PURPLE device was a home-grown device based on telephone switches, not the proprietary wired disks of the Nazi’s prized Enigma, which was a commercial product.
But shortcuts in PURPLE’s design (it encrypted 20 letters of the Roman alphabet in one way, and the remaining 6 in another, making it more predictable), plus the perspicacity of cryptologists such as Genevieve Grotjan, who served with the US Army Signal Intelligence Service, led to spectacular successes in reading Japanese secrets.
In the words of the Postal Service:
They deciphered Japanese fleet communications, helped prevent German U-boats from sinking vital cargo ships, and worked to break the encryption systems that revealed Japanese shipping routes and diplomatic messages.
Fortunately for the Allied forces in the Pacific theatre of war, the Japanese seem to have fallen into the same trap of self-belief that the Nazis did with their encryption devices.
The Japanese military commanders couldn’t bring themselves to accept, or apparently even to assume as a precaution, that the enemy might be smart enough to crack the cipher, and carried on using it right to the end.
So, as the French might say, “To the Women Cryptologists of World War 2: Chapeau!” 
You can buy commemorative sheets and first-day covers directly from the USPS…
…and you might also like to have a crack (see what we did there?) at a little decryption puzzle that’s posed on what’s called the selvedge, or selvage, of the stamp sheets. (The selvedge is, quite literally, the part around of the edge of the stamp sheet that holds the unused stamps together.)
Here it is (the same cipher is used for all four parts):
Let us know in the comments if you solve it (we’ll redact correct answers until everyone has had time to have a go).
For hints on how to solve it, have a read of our popular article on cryptographic history: 
Serious Security: What 2000 years of cryptography can teach us


Follow @NakedSecurity on Twitter for the latest computer security news.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Instagram for exclusive pics, gifs, vids and LOLs!
Very interesting, but you draw us in with Mavis Batey’s discovery, but then don’t tell us what the big story she’d discovered was. I can’t think of anything momentous that Italy was involved in during a lot of the war.
Well, this article isn’t really about the Italian war theatre, or Bletchley Park. It’s about US cryptology. The mention of Mavis Batey MBE was mainly [a] a quick opportunity to remind people of women cryptologists elsewhere in WW2 and [b] a way of demonstrating why WW2 cryptanalysis was seat-of-the-pants, stay-up-all-night, not-your-usual-desk-job sort of stuff.
For those specifically interested in the Italian angle… that’s what the link is for. Click on the picture of Mavis to take a subroutine call into that part of the story. 
(TL;DR: Battle of Matapan.)
Thanks for making that clear, Paul, as I hadn’t realised that Mavis Batey’s picture was a link. It was great to find out more about her and her work.
I hear you… I am pretty used to those “pictorial article summary link” things. So I consider them obviously to be links.
They are generated by WordPress automatically and I quite like the way they look… but they don’t actually behave that obviously like links, as you say. Even hovering over, or tap-and-holding on a mobile, doesn’t produce the same link behaviour as any other links! (And the text you can click on isn’t even blue, as it is everywhere else.)
I will speak to my web chums to see what customisation we can do to make those “magic pictorial links” a bit less magic and a bit more jolly obvious! 
Thanks for taking the trouble to reply…
The cipher algorithm is [REDACTED], the key is [REDACTED] and the words spell out [REDACTED]?
Correct!
[XXXX XX XX XXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX / XXXXXX /  XXXXXXX / XXXXXX ] or in better shape to be gathered and understood successful:
 [XXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXX XX XXXXX XXX XX / …]
To decrypt this message wasn’t as hard as to do it on an original enigma cyphered one, really.
But to be honest, you have to build really a acuteness of thought for it.
Correct!
[REDACTED ANSWER]
[REDACTED NAME] cipher, [REDACTED KEY] to decrypt
Correct!
Another story about a real woman and another real Genious 🙂  It’s on Amazon
“The Woman Who Smashed Codes: A True Story of Love, Spies, and the Unlikely Heroine Who Outwitted America’s Enemies”
Jason Fagone
Truly engrossing 🙂
That would be Elizebeth Smith Friedman (apparently her mother liked the name “Elizabeth” but didn’t like “Eliza”, so used the unusual spelling to prevent people abbreviating it).
For a really funky story about Elizebeth (she wrangled a cryptogram onto her husband’s tombsone – he was a famous cryptographer, too – and it went unsolved for close to 50 years until Elona Dunkin figured it out in the late 2010s), check this out:
https://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/2018/01/22/famous-cryptographers-tombstone-cryptogram-decrypted/
Comment * 
Name 
Email 
Website 
 



Δ