Sophos Home protects every Mac and PC in your home 
Deciphering Microsoft’s official Update Guide web pages is not for the faint-hearted.
Most of the information you need, if not everything you’d really like to know, is there, but there’s such a dizzing number of ways to view it, and so many generated-on-the-fly pages are needed to display it, that it can be tricky to find out what’s truly new, and what’s truly important.
Should you search by the operating system platforms affected? 
By the severity of the vulnerabilies? By the likelihood of exploitation? 
Should you sort the zero-days to the top? 
(We don’t think you can – we think there are three zero-days in this month’ list, but we had to drill into individual CVE pages and search for the text “Exploitation detected” in order to be sure that a specific bug was already known to cybercriminals.)
Is a Critical elevation of privilege (EoP) bug more alarming than an Important remote code execution (RCE)?
The former type of bug requires cybercriminals to break in first, but probably gives them a way to take over completely, typically getting them the equivalent of sysadmin powers or operating system-level control.
The second type of bug might only get the crooks in with the lowly access privileges of little old you, but it nevertheless gets them onto the network in the first place.
Of course, while everyone else might breathe a sigh of relief if an attacker wasn’t able to get access to their stuff, that’s cold comfort for you, if you’re the one who did get attacked.
We counted 75 CVE-numbered bugs dated 2023-02-14, given that this year’s February updates arrived on Valentine’s Day.
(Actually, we found 76, but we ignored one bug that didn’t have a severity rating, was tagged CVE-2019-15126, and seems to boil down to a report about unsupported Broadcom Wi-Fi chips in Microsoft Hololens devices – if you have a Hololens and have any advice for other readers, please let us know in the comments below.)
We extracted a list and included it below, sorted so that the bugs dubbed Critical are at the top (there are seven of them, all RCE-class bugs).
You can also read the SophosLabs analysis of Patch Tuesday for more details.
A diverse set of fixes in February’s Patch Tuesday release


If you’re not familiar with the bug abbreviations shown below, here’s a high-speed guide to security flaws:
The 75-strong bug list is here, with the three zero-days we know about marked with an asterisk (*):
Business users like to prioritise patches, rather than doing them all at once and hoping nothing breaks.
We therefore put the Critical bugs at the top, along with the RCE holes, given that RCEs are typically used by crooks to get their initial foothold.
In the end, however, all bugs need to be patched, especially now that the updates are available and attackers can start “working backwards” by trying to figure out from the patches what sort of holes existed before the updates came out.
Reverse engineering Windows patches can be time-consuming, not least because Windows is a closed-source operating system, but it’s an awful lot easier to figure out how bugs work and how to exploit them if you’ve got a good idea where to start looking, and what to look for.
The sooner you get ahead (or the quicker you catch up, in the case of zero-day holes, which are bugs that the crooks found first), the less likely you’ll be the one who gets attacked.
So even if you don’t patch everything at once, we’re nevertheless going to say: Don’t delay/Get started today!
READ THE SOPHOSLABS ANALYSIS OF PATCH TUESDAY FOR MORE DETAILS
A diverse set of fixes in February’s Patch Tuesday release


Follow @NakedSecurity on Twitter for the latest computer security news.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Instagram for exclusive pics, gifs, vids and LOLs!
The best site ever !
Errrr, thanks! 
Comment * 
Name 
Email 
Website 
 



Δ