Sophos Home protects every Mac and PC in your home 
You’ve almost certainly heard of the ransomware family known as DoppelPaymer, if only because the name itself is a reminder of the double-barrelled blackmail technique used by many contemporary ransomware gangs.
To increase the pressure on you to pay up, so-called double-extortionists not only scramble all your data files so your business stops running, but also steal copies of those files to use as extra leverage.
The idea is that if you pay up for the decryption key to unlock your files and get your business back on the road, the attackers will very generously also agree to delete the files they’ve stolen (or so they say), rather than leaking those files to the media, revealing them the regulator, or selling them on to other cybercriminals.
Crudely put, the blackmailers are inviting you to pay for them both for a positive action (handing over the decryption keys), and for a negative one (not leaking the stolen data).
Also, rather obviously, the crooks are hoping that even if you have reliable backups and could get your business moving again on your own, without paying for the decryption keys…
… then they may nevertheless be able to blackmail you into handing over their menaces-money anyway, by promising to keep their mouths shut about the fact that you suffered a data breach.
Usually, double-extortion attackers steal your files in their unencrypted form before garbling them. But they could just as well steal them during or after the scrambling process, given that they already know the decryption keys.
DoppelPaymer, along with many other cybergangs of this sort, ran their own online “name-and-shame” website, as noted in a recent press release from Europol:
The criminal group behind this ransomware relied on a double extortion scheme, using a leak website launched by the criminal actors in early 2020. German authorities are aware of 37 victims of this ransomware group, all of them companies. One of the most serious attacks was perpetrated against the University Hospital in Düsseldorf. In the US, victims paid at least €40,000,000 between May 2019 and March 2021.
That’s the bad news.
The good news, if you can call it that, is the reason why Europol is writing about the DoppelPaymer ransomware right now. 
A combined operation involving German, Ukrainian and US law enforcement has just resulted in the interrogation and arrest of suspects in Germany and Ukraine, and the seizure of electronic devices in Ukraine for forensic analysis.
Europol didn’t publish any pictures of the equipment seized in this case, but we’re assuming that laptops and mobile phones, perhaps along with vehicles (which are effectively multi-purpose online computing networks in their own right these days), were taken away for examination.
The press release didn’t mention whether the investigators were able to seize or shut down any servers connected with this ransomware gang.
These days, whether they’re operated by legitimate businesses or criminals, servers tend to run somewhere in the cloud, which quite literally means “on someone else’s computer”, which almost always also means “somewhere else, perhaps even in another country”.
Unfortunately, with careful use of dark web anonymity tools and cautious operational security, criminals can obscure the physical location of the servers they’re using.
Those servers could include the websites where they publish their name-and-shame data, the databases where they record the decryption keys of current victims and whether they’ve paid, or the “business network” servers where they sign up affiliates to help them mount their attacks.
So, even if the cops arrest some, many or all the members of a ransomware gang, that doesn’t always stop the ransomware activities, because their infrastructure remains, and can still be used by other gang members or taken over by rivals to continue the extortion activities.
Likewise, if the cops manage to take down and seize servers that are vital to a ransomware gang, the same dark web anonymity that makes it hard to trace forwards from arrested users to their servers…
…also makes it hard to trace backwards from seized servers to identify and arrest the users.
Unless the crooks have made technical or operational blunders, of course, such as once-in-a-while making direct connections to their servers by mistake instead of going through an anonymising service such as TOR (the Onion router), or relying on other operators in the cybercrime scene not to rat them out by accident or on purpose.
LEARN MORE ABOUT HOW DARK WEB CROOKS GET CAUGHT
We talk to renowned cybersecurity author Andy Greenberg about his excellent book, Tracers in the Dark: The Global Hunt for the Crime Lords of Cryptocurrency. 
No audio player below? Listen directly on Soundcloud.Prefer reading to listening? Full transcript available.
LEARN MORE ABOUT XDR AND MDR
Short of time or expertise to take care of cybersecurity threat response?Worried that cybersecurity will end up distracting you from all the other things you need to do?
Take a look at Sophos Managed Detection and Response:24/7 threat hunting, detection, and response  ▶
LEARN MORE ABOUT ACTIVE ADVERSARIES
Read our Active Adversary Playbook.
This is a fascinating study of 144 real-life attacks by Sophos Field CTO John Shier.
The Active Adversary Playbook 2022


Follow @NakedSecurity on Twitter for the latest computer security news.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Instagram for exclusive pics, gifs, vids and LOLs!
Comment * 
Name 
Email 
Website 
 



Δ