Sophos Home protects every Mac and PC in your home 
Apple’s latest update blast is out, including an extensive range of security patches for all devices that Apple officially supports.
There are fixes for iOS, iPadOS, tvOS and watchOS, along with patches for all three supported flavours of macOS, and even a special update to the firmware in Apple’s super-cool external Studio Display monitor.
Apparently, if you’re running macOS Ventura and you’ve hooked your Mac up to a Studio Display, just updating the Ventura operating system itself isn’t enough to secure you against potential system-level attacks.
According to Apple’s bulletin, a bug in the display screen’s own firmware could be abused by an app running on your Mac “to execute arbitrary code with kernel privileges.”
We’re guessing that if you’re on the road right now, travelling with your Mac, you might not be able to plug in to your Screen Display for a while yet, by which time some enterprising criminal might have worked backwards from the patches, or a proof-of-concept exploit might have been released.
We don’t know how to (or even if you can) download the Screen Display patch for offline installation later when you get home.
So: if you can only patch your display in a few days’ or weeks’ time; because you have to plug your patched Mac into your vulnerable display to update it; and assuming that you need go online to complete the update…
…you may want to learn how to start up your Mac in so-called Safe Mode, and to update from there.
In Safe Mode, a minimum set of system software and third-party apps are loaded, thus slimming down what’s known as your attack surface area until you’ve completed the patch. 
Ironically, albeit unavoidably, most third-party security add-ons don’t start up in Safe Mode, so an alternative approach is simply to boot up with as many non-security-related apps turned off, so they don’t start automatically when you log in.
You can temporarily turn off auto-starting background apps in the Settings > General > Login Items menu.
The good news, as far as we can see, is that there is only one zero-day bug in this batch of updates: the bug CVE-2023-23529 in WebKit.
This vulnerablity, which allows attackers to implant malware on your iOS 15 or iPadOS 15 device without you noticing, is listed with the dread words, “Apple is aware of a report that this issue may have been actively exploited.”
Fortunately, this bug is only listed as a zero-day in the iOS 15.7.4 and iPadOS 15.7.4 security bulletin, meaning that more recent iDevices, Macs, TVs and Apple Watches appear to be safe from this one.
The bad news, as usual, is that there is nevertheless a wide range of we-hope-we-found-them-before-the-crooks-did bugs fixed for all Apple’s other operating systems, including vulnerabilities that could theoretically be exploited for:
The updates you need, the bulletins that describe what you’re getting, and the version numbers to look for to ensure you’ve updated correctly, are as follows:
On iDevices, go to Settings > General > Software Update to check if you’re up-to-date, and to trigger an update if you aren’t.
On Macs, it’s almost the same, except that you open the Apple menu and choose System Settings… to get started, followed by General > Software Update.
Get ’em while they’re fresh!
Follow @NakedSecurity on Twitter for the latest computer security news.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Instagram for exclusive pics, gifs, vids and LOLs!
Thanks!
It’s a pleasure – hope you got all your Apple gear updated smoothly. (My macOS Monterey for Intel update was quite big – 2.5GB or so – but it installed fairly quickly. I was offline for at most 30 mins, during which time my iOS 16 phone updated as well.)
Comment * 
Name 
Email 
Website 
 



Δ