Sophos Home protects every Mac and PC in your home 
Public source code repositories, from Sourceforge to GitHub, from the Linux Kernel Archives to ReactOS.org, from PHP Packagist to the Python Package Index, better known as PyPI, are a fantastic source (sorry!) of free operating systems, applications, programming libraries, and developers’ toolkits that have done computer science and software engineering a world of good.
Most software projects need “helper” code that isn’t a fundamental part of the problem that the project itself is trying to solve, such as utility functions for writing to the system log, producing colourful output, uploading status reports to a web service, creating backup archives of old data, and so on.
In cases like that, you can save time (and benefit for free from other people’s expertise) by searching for a package that already exists in one of the many available repositories, and hooking that external package into your own tree of source code.
In the other direction, if you’re working on a project of your own that includes some useful utilities you couldn’t find anywhere else, you might feel inclined to offer something to the community in return by packaging up your code and making it available for free to everyone else.
As you’re no doubt aware, however, community source code repositories bring with them a number of cybersecurity challenges:
Unfortunately, PyPI seems to have been hammered by a bunch of rogue, automated uploads over the past weekend.
The team has, perhaps understandably, not yet given any details of how the attack was carried out, but the site temporarily blocked anyone new from joining up, and blocked existing users from creating new projects:
New user and new project name registration on PyPI is temporarily suspended. The volume of malicious users and malicious projects being created on the index in the past week has outpaced our ability to respond to it in a timely fashion, especially with multiple PyPI administrators on leave.
While we re-group over the weekend, new user and new project registration is temporarily suspended. [2023-05-20T16:02:00Z]
We’re guessing that the attackers were using automated tools to flood the site with rogue packages, presumably hoping that if they tried hard enough, some of the malicious content would escape notice and get left behind even after the site’s cleanup efforts, thus completing what you might call an Security Bypass Attack…
…or perhaps that the site administrators would feel compelled to take the entire site offline to sort it out, thus causing a Denial of Service Attack, or DoS.
The good news is that in just over 24 hours, the team got on top of the problem, and was able to announce, “Suspension has been lifted.”
In other words, even though PyPI was not 100% functional over the weekend, there was no true denial of service against the site or its millions of users.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Twitter for the latest computer security news.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Instagram for exclusive pics, gifs, vids and LOLs!
This is part of a big problem with today’s internet – anonymity. If everyone had a verified digital ID with an attached real name, and used it for all services, cybercrime, online mobbing and spam etc. would be much reduced. Security would be improved. I would not mind paying $ 0.001 to send mail or the same to receive newsletters.
You should still be able to turn off the ID by default, e.g., when you are browsing or wish to send an anonymous whistleblowing report.
If only there were someone we were all inclined to trust with those verified digital IDs, eh? An organisation that would have no inclination to privatise the service, or to outsource it overseas to the lowest bidder, or to recoup the cost by selling the “unimportant” parts of your personal data to marketing agencies, or to back it up into insecure cloud buckets, or to lease it to analytics companies, or to use it for long-term policy planning, or…
Every country has a government which like it or not is the de facto trusted entity entitled to define and enforce property rights, etc..  Every government could issue a single identity token to each person and legal entity which would be required for all transactions and dealings requiring identification.  Multifactor biometric/genetic keys could be used to secure the identity token against theft.  Activities explicitly allowing anonymity could still be tolerated, but any activity requiring identification could be forced to use the identity token.  
I think most people don’t like the idea of a universal identity token, since it eliminates a great many opportunities for fraud and would thereby eliminate a great many “business opportunities”.  Hence the status quo.
We already have ID in the form of identity cards, driving licences, passeports etc. Your data is already stored by the government. The physical ID can’t be used to verify your ID (yet), unfortunately.
This is a fantastic overview of some of the main risks for the open source community.  Well done, Duck!
Thanks. Glad you found it useful. 
Getting spammed with massive amounts of new malware in intense bursts is a problem we’ve faced since the first automated malware construction kits showed up  in about 1990 (annoyingly at about the same as affordable CD-R drives – snail-mailed CDs had really high bandwidth in those days!)…
…so our sympathy to any community caught up in this sort of anti-social-at-best and outright-criminal-at-worst malware spammage.
Wow.  I appreciate the heads-up.  Thank you, Paul Ducklin and Sophos.  Think paranoid, guys.
Welllll, no need for paranoia… that’s a step too far. 
But not blindly connecting your DevOps/CI system to a “wget the latest code straight from someone else’s repository to ensure you are up to date” is a good start.
Comment * 
Name 
Email 
Website 
 



Δ