Sophos Home protects every Mac and PC in your home 
Ransomware – as readers here know only too well – is one of the biggest cybercrime challenges we collectively face today.
That’s why Sophos has recently visited cities around the globe to dive deep into the real story behind ransomware.
We captured more than 100 hours of interviews with cybercriminals, cybersecurity experts, industry analysts, and policy makers to provide a full 360-degree perspective.
The result is Think You Know Ransomware?, a three-part documentary series that delves into the realities of ransomware, revealing the far-reaching consequences for both businesses and society at large.
Episode 1, Origins of Cybercrime, is now available to watch. It explores the history of ransomware as told by cybersecurity professionals, ransomware victims, and law enforcement officials.
Episodes 2 and 3 will be released over the next two weeks, with all episodes available at https://www.sophos.com/ransomware.
Please share the documentary series with friends, family members, or co-workers who would find it interesting and useful. The more we all know about ransomware, the better we can defend against it.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Twitter for the latest computer security news.
Follow @NakedSecurity on Instagram for exclusive pics, gifs, vids and LOLs!
great videos, can you make it downloadable, I want to add to our college library for our cybersecurity library for education ( also a Sophos customer)
Just go to the raw Vimeo URL. Click the “share” icon in the embedded video player, or use this link:
https COLON SLASH SLASH
You should see a [Download] button, where you should be offered a choice of five different resolutions (from a rather tiny 426×178 up to 2048×858), ranging from 40MB to 470MB in download size.
Or simply embed the video on your own site, which means your viewers will automatically see any updates or edits we may make in future. Also, we pay for the bandwidth of serving it up :-)
Just watched episode 1, very well-made. Looking forward for the rest of them (great sound effects).
Thank you overall for all your efforts all these years to inform us.
Comment * 
Name 
Email 
Website 
 



Δ